Assamita 

CLA

Ssamits

NBOOK:

Assamite

BY CLAYTON OLIVER

CREDITS

Written by: Clayton Oliver

Additional Material on the Treaty of Tyre: Graeme Davis Additional Mind's Eye Theatre Systems: Deirdre Brooks Developed by: Justin Achilli Editor: James Stewart

Art Director: Richard Thomas

Layout & Typesetting: Becky Jollensten

Interior Art: Mike Danza, Michael Gaydos, Leif Jones, Andy Trabbold, Christopher Shy

Front Cover Art: John Van Fleet

Front & Back Cover Design: Becky Jollensten

735 PARK NORTH BLVD SUITE 128 CLARKSTON, GA 3002

WHITE WOLF USA GAME STUDIO

2000 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Reproduction without the written permission of the pub lisher is expressly forbidden, except for the purposes of reviews, and for blank character sheets, which may be repro- duced for personal use only. White Wolf, Vampire, Vampire the Masquerade, Vampire the Dark Ages, Mage the Ascen- sion, World of Darkness and Aberrant are registered trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights re- served. Werewolf the Apocalypse, Wraith the Oblivion. Changeling the Dreaming, Hunter the Reckoning, Werewolf the Wild West, Mage the Sorcerers Crusade, Wraith the Great War, Trinity, Clanbook Assamite, Libellus Sanguinus 3, Guide to the Camarilla and Guide to the Sabbat are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights re- served. All characters, names, places and text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, Inc.

The mention of or reference to any company or product in these pages is not a challenge to the trademark or copyright concerned.

This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters and themes. All mystical and supernatural elements are fiction and intended for entertainment purposes only. This book contains mature content. Reader discretion is advised. For a free White Wolf catalog call 1-800-454-WOLF. Check out White Wolf online at

http://www.white-wolf.com; alt.games.whitewolf and rec.games.frp storyteller

PRINTED IN USA.

SPECIAL THANKS, DRAGONCON EDITION

Tim "WoD Crackhouse" Avers, for rolling with the punches and finding party space about a week before the show. Richard "Who's Your Daddy Thomas, for becoming a parent instead of weathering the Gandalf Parade.

Mike "Time To Go Home, Sir" Chaney, for being arrested as little as possible.

Mike "You Had Better Go Home, Too, Si" Tinney, for having more arrests than Chaney.

Conrad "Con Humper" Hubbard, for gleaning dates in the dealer's room.

Charles "Veteran Con Humper" Bailey, for probably doing the same thing even though rumors remain unsubstantiated at this time.

Dean "Point of Contact" Burnham, for playing switchboard operator on the convention floor.

Kraig "Practically Naked Again" Blackwelder, for his sec ond year of dauntless dance-floor expression.

Chad "Dirty Old Chow" Brown, for being ditched. ha ha. Oh, and for helping "acquire" the amps and speakers. Brian "Steak-and-Rumtastic" Glass, for opening the whole absurd affair with the drunkest birthday ever and my still- drunkest booth shift ever.

EEEEEEW

The swampy booze-slick behind the bar that saturated the carpet and still reeks to high heaven.

CLANBOOK: ASSAMIT

2

N BOOK

Assamite

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION: FROM THE TREATY OF TYRE CHAPTER ONE: HOW QUICKLY WE FORGOT CHAPTER TWO: PRAYERS TO BROKEN STONE CHAPTER THREE: SONS AND DAUGHTERS OF HAQIM

CONTENTS

3

4

10

24

70

IN THE YEAR OF OUR LORD. 1496...

Whereas

we, the Elders and dred of the Clans Ventrue, Tremere, Toreador, Nosferatu, Gangrel, Brujah and Malkavian, gathered together in Brotherhood and Mutual Faith and hereinafter known as the Camarilla, being the True and only Rightful Heirs of the Estate of Caine, do desire an end to the Unlawful and Diableristic Practices of the Rebels hereinafter known as the Clan Assamite,

And wherea

the said Clan Assamite does desire

I Camarilla shall hold back its Hand

from the Full and Ultimate Extinction of the Clan Assamite:

Therefore

be it agreed between all j ssigned and witnessed hereunto that the following Articles shall stand as binding between all the Parties and their Progeny and Servitors, from this date perpetually...

...The Clan Assamite shall refrain from taking the Blood of other Kindred, and as surety of this provision shall submit themselves to a ritual to be administered by the Elders of the Clan Tremere, whereby Kindred Blood shall be made poisonous to them...

The Clan Assamite shall remain peacefully in the territory ceded to them by the Camarilla, which they have historically claimed as their own. They shall seek no expansion of this territory, nor shall they permit any unrest of mortals within their territory to spread to other areas. They shall not travel, either singly or in groups, outside this territory, nor shall they have Retainers or Servitors of any kind travel outside this territory on their behalf. The Princes of the Camarilla have the perpetual right to call a Blood Hunt against any Assamite or Assamites within their fiefs, and need give no other reason for such a Blood Hunt beyond membership of the Assamite bloodline...

...The defenses of the castle of Alamut shall be dismantled to the point where the castle can no longer withstand a siege or other attack by the forces of the Camarilla. The Clan Assamite shall permit observers from the Camarilla to verify compliance with this provision. Further, any re-fortification of Alamut, or any attempt to establish a fortification elsewhere, shall be in breach of this treaty, and a worldwide Blood Hunt may be called against those committing the breach... ...The Camarilla undertakes to cease all action against the Clan Assamite, and not to violate the borderi2of its agreed territory without the sanction of a full Convocation of the

the Camarilla. The Clans of the Camarilla agree among themselves that they shall no longer seek to employ members of the Clan Assamite as hired assassins, and that those violating this provision shall forfeit the protection of their Clans and may be subject to a Blood Hunt. The Clan Assamite undertakes to cease any and all activity of its members as assassins for hire...

FROM THE TREATY OF TE

CITAPTUR Onu How QUICKI Y WE FORGOT

The truth shall set you free.

\-motto of the United States' Central Intelligence Agency

By way of deception, thou shalt do war.

\-motto of Israel's Institute for Intelligence and Special Tasks (Mossad)

From the Chronicle of the Heartsblood, the second chapter of the Book of the Final Nights; appearing almost identically in the Parables of Blood.

... and so it came to pass that in those nights the House of Haqim was broken by a great war. The hiss of whispered lies and the clamor of battle filled the halls of the Mountain. Brother set upon brother, and the Chil- dren washed their spears in the Heartsblood, and the foremost casualty of those battles was Truth.

Or perhaps not.

I set down this history of the Children of Hagim at the request of al-Ashrad, former Amr and now Eldest-in-Exile. Although my hands are more familiar with blade and blood than with pen and ink, I attempt to render Truth as best I am able. Perhaps in this small service I may atone for my shortcomings of faith and loyalty.

This work, I am informed, is the first chronicle of the Children of Haqim to be freely released from the chambers of Alamut in more than a millennium. It may be expected, then, to contradict conventional wisdom regarding the Children, particularly as the Camarilla holds it. It is to that

august body (which the Eldest-in-Exile informs me will be my most likely audience) and the rest of Caine's inheritors that I say this:

Everything you know about us is a lie.

It was an easy one to believe, was it not? Hundreds, even thousands of bloodthirsty-literally-Arab assas sins. Contract killers slaying vampires for the greater glory of Caine and Haqim, or "Assam" as you may mispro nounce his name. Yes, the rest of the Cainite world believed it-clung to it, even, as the safest, simplest explanation of actions whose true motives their grandsires had forgotten. It was a good lie. It kept the Children safe for hundreds of years while they tried to find themselves again.

The problem with telling a good lie is that the liar may become so caught up in it that she loses sight of the truth, and she starts to believe the lie herself. The Children hid their history so well that they took their own deception as reality. In doing so, they forgot the soud of what they were made to be.

No longer.

We began in a manner similar to this....

CHAPTER ONE HOW QUELY WE FORGOT 7

In the early nights of the First City, there was a man. In his mortal days, he was a great warrior. Had there been enough warriors in those times for armies to exist, he might have been a great general, but he contented himself with being one of the most talented war-party leaders his homeland had ever seen. In time, however, his desire for bloodshed faded, as it usually does in warriors who have actually seen war. He dedicated himself to scholarship, and excelled at it, learning to write and to speak the language of the dead. Eventually, his renown spread far enough to attract the attention of one Caine's children, who decided to preserve the stone of his soul for eternity.

The warrior-turned-scholar wandered for a time under the new veil of night perhaps a month, perhaps centuries. Eventually, he sought the company of his own kind and made his haven in the Second City, though he never truly settled there. Over the years, he gave the Blood to a handful of craftsmen and academicians whose skill and knowledge he admired, and his brood quietly prospered.

When his brothers and sister and cousins quarreled, this Cainite always remained neutral. He had seen war's face, and he knew the folly of spilling blood for the sake of pride. No matter who offered him alliance, his response was always the same: "Not this night

This is not to say the Cainite had no confidants among his contemporaries. He nurtured the artisans of the Second City alongside his sister, the one who would be known as the mother of the Clan of the Blossom. He debated the nature of life and the mysteries of death with his cousin, who would come to know death in a more intimate manners than any of them could imagine in those nights. He spoke of philosophy with the brothers who would be known as the Serpent and the Sage. And some nights, when the wanderer whose children would bear the face of the Beast turned away from the walls of the Second City and loped into the wastelands, this Cainite ran at her side. It was this last of his cousins who named him the Hunter in a private jest-for of all the prey that the varied ancients sought, this childe's was the most elusive of all: Truth

One night, the Hunter's siblings came to his house to beg a service of him. This filled the Hunter's heart with despair and weariness, for they had never before sought him out in unison, and he knew that no good could come of it. Nevertheless, because they were his brothers and sisters and cousins, he bade them enter and made them welcome. With little preamble, they began their plea to him. "We have noticed said the Blossom, "that some of our children have overstepped their bounds. They run wild among the mortals Madness is in their eyes, and chaos and misery in their wake

The Hunter nodded sadly. "I have noticed this too, and it pains me that my nieces and nephews act in such a fashion, spreading terror among the children of Seth and proclaiming themselves gods. But what can I and mine do about such savagery

This city has need of a voice without bias, said the Seer. "We would ask you to bring us such a voice. Create a second family, so that they may be our judges, and you may sit at their head and keep order among us all

But why do you ask me to do such a thing asked the Hunter. "While it is true that I was a warrior in my youth, I have forsaken the spear for the scroll, and I no longer wish to shed more blood than I must to survive

We ask you to take this responsibility answered the Sculptor of Souls, because you do not wish it. Therefore, you will not abuse the power that it brings We can trust none of ourselves, nor our own children. But you have always remained the aloof one among us, favoring none over another, and we believe you will continue to do so. And we know you will do this because it is needful

So the Hunter the Judge-agreed. He went forth and gathered a second family, a family of other judges And over the centuries, the burden of responsibility wore heavily upon him.

Even in his own house, he could find no peace. Much as he tried to bring agreement between his two families, he could not. His first family, the gentle artisans and wise scholars, viewed the judges as headstrong, arrogant upstarts. The judges, for their part, saw the first family as effete cowards The Hunter disappeared for weeks on end, leaving his house in the care of a different one of his children each time. As the decades went by, these absences grew longer and the time he spent in the Second City grew shorter.

The final straw, as it were, came one night in the middle of a petty dispute, the details of which have been lost to history. No one agrees even upon the disputants of the issue. The only facts that all accounts concur on are these: After centuries of arguments, the Hunter's patience finally broke. One of his childer came to him with an argument that he considered so petty, so pointless, that it became the focal point for all his anger with his own lineage. He lost his temper with both his families and stormed out of his house, never to be seen again.

And the final provocation, by chance, came from a member of the first family- the scholars

So the judges took this final sign of disfavor as a mandate that they were to take up leadership of the house. And so it was. And so it has been ever since.

Ever since Haqim left us

CLANBOOK: ASSA

8

I have translated that story from the original, which is inscribed on a clay tablet that the Eldest-in-Exile has gener- ously lent me for this project. He informs me that it was inscribed some two centuries before the birth of the Christian Martyr-God. While it should not be taken in a completely literal sense- the time scale, for instance, seems vastly incorrect-the core narrative is factual. As it suggests, the

Children of Haqim were not always the band of lusty killers that most observers now think we are. Ours is a story of a fall to rival that of \[Brujah), a lie greater than that told by Mekhet, and a leader with a vision to rival that of Saulot. Or so the historians of Alamut would have us believe.

Over the centuries, I have been introduced to varying accounts of our origins. For the sake of simplicity, I have attempted to compile a prehistory that adheres most closely to that with which my intended audience is familiar. Other possibilities will receive separate examination out of aca- demic interest....

THE FIRST NIGHTS

We know our clan founder better than many clans know theirs, both from the memories of those who met him and through his own writings. Haqim was not his real name, for he knew the power inherent in such things, but it was the moniker he chose for himself after he received the Blood, and it is the same name by which we still refer to him tonight.

In his mortal life, Haqim was a warrior and a hunter, a member of one of the myriad nomadic tribes that followed the migrations of animal herds across the Fertile Crescent and into Asia and Northern Africa. He was highly skilled, but, by his own admission, he was far from the best among his peers, and he believed that his sire chose to Embrace him more for his strength of will than for any quality of skill or appearance. Accounts differ as to the identity of the second-generation Cainite who sired Haqim, but several records refer to Arikel, the presumed founder of the Toreador line, as Haqim's "sister," which would make En'esh, or Enoch, the most likely candidate.

Until the destruction of the First City, Haqim served as one of its most steadfast defenders. Although Caine's children were mighty individually, the wealth of the city of Enoch was such that almost all of its neighbors made an attempt, at one time or another, to raid its walls. In some cases, this was from greed; more often, it was out of desperation to end the city's preda tion of the surrounding areas. All too often, Haqim and his siblings bathed their tongues and their spears in the blood of mortals whose only offense was hunger.

THE SECOND CITY

After the destruction of the First City, Haqim wandered for some time. His later writings suggest that he had already grown weary of his undying condition and the state of affairs that preceded Enoch's fall. Haqim never stated outright that he knew of his sib lings' plans to slay their sires, but he strongly implied that he was aware of the possibility and wanted no part of it. Instead, he chose to distance himself from the he insulated himself from it whenever possible. conflict. Though he knew he could not avoid it entirely.

This neutrality characterized Hagim's relations with Caine throughout their loose association I find considerable interest in the fact that his Children are the only Great Clan (9 do not count the Tremore, nor the Giovanni, as Great Clans) that does not possess a blood-borne disability that can be traced to a curse or condemnation from Caine Perhaps our collective father never incurred his own grandsire's wrath

Then again, perhaps Caine was just more subtly displeased with Hagin than he was with the Nosferain progenitor. The Children have fallen quite suitably

Some time during his wandering, Haqim created his first childe. This individual's name is lost to history, but the Parables of Blood state that he was a scribe and a primitive astronomer whom the Ancestor saved from being stoned for heresy. This set the trend for many of Haqim's later Embraces: innovators and intellectuals whose vision equaled their knowledge of their chosen crafts.

By the time Haqim learned of the founding of the Second City, its walls had already been in place for a century or more. He quietly observed his siblings' progress for decades before deciding to join them. One night, he simply appeared at the gates of the city with a dozen followers and politely requested entry. His brother Malkay was the first to welcome him, giving Haqim a home before the rest of the Third Generation was aware of the newcomer's arrival. After such a display of hospi- tality, the other Antediluvians were forced to accept Haqim in order to save face.

The seeds of the War of Ages were sown well before Haqim established residence in the Second City. Know- ing that his childer would become near-defenseless pawns in any such conflict, he quickly made a statement of neutrality. While this pleased none of his siblings, all of whom had hoped to recruit him as an ally or a d

or a dupe, it also ensured that Haqim and his Children were less likely to incite the ire of a third-generation Cainite for any given action. This led them into a sort of political

CHAPTER ONE: HOW QUICKLY WE FORGOT 9

equilibrium where they were largely ignored and left free to pursue their individual crafts and studies.

Justice

Neutrality is, in and of itself, a statement of political belief, at least in the Jyhad. As the Cainites of the Fourth and Fifth Generations of the Second City grew increasingly heady with their godlike power, their con flicts became less subtle than those of their sires, and the city's mortals were all too often caught in the middle of these disputes. The Third Generation attempted to rein in their children, as they were justifiably concerned about attracting the attention of Caine, but widespread peace was next to impossible due to the lack of trust between the Antediluvians. Only one among their number had earned their distrust to an equal extent: the one who had set himself apart from their squabbles.

The Antediluvians reached a rough consensus and confronted Haqim in his own haven one night. Their proposal was simple: None of them trusted any of the others enough to allow that individual to have any sort of power over them. However, if their childer were allowed to continue on their present course, Caine's

wrath would certainly come down on the city as a whole. Thus, some sort of authority must evolve in the Second City that could protect the Children of Seth- the mortals-from the excesses of any given vampire without such actions being seen as a move in the nascent Jyhad. Haqim had set himself apart; thus, he and his brood were the best of a set of bad choices.

Haqim protested his siblings' request, as they knew he would. Eventually, it was Saulot who brought forth the one argument that would convince his cousin. The service Haqim was being asked to render was not for the Cainites of the Second City but for the mortals. Haqim relented. The next night, he left the city and vanished for a year. When he returned, he brought with him a dosen more followers, the first of the Second City's judges.

The judges grew to prominence in the Second City over the followingdecades UnderHaqim's leadership,theyquashed the first stimings of the Warof Ages andrestored ordertoaland whose mortal inhabitants had come to fear their rulers. For a time, it seemed that the Second City knew peace. However, threats both internal and extemal had merely learned to hide themselves better.

CLANBOOK: ASSAMITE

10

THE CONFLICTS WITH THE ADVERSARY

Approximately two centuries after Haqim estab- lished the judges, a cult of demon-venerating vampires appeared on the borders of the territory claimed by the Second City. Several decades of strikes and counterstrikes gradually mounted toward outright war between the mortal attachés of the two powers. Haqim, still charged with keeping order within the city, noted a gradual increase in certain blasphemous acts that could only be attributed to these wicked Cainites or

their sympathizers within the various vampiric families.

However, the infernalists used a form of blood magic that Haqim's judges had little means of countering. Although Saulot claimed his holy warriors were capable of piercing and nullifying such demonic sorcery, Haqim had little trust left for the cousin who had all but forced him into the position of law-keeper.

Haqim left the city again. When he returned, this time after three years, he had only three followers-but all three were once mortal wizards who had weathered the curse of unlife. These sorcerers were the first pub- licly acknowledged blood magicians of the Second City. Serving alongside the judges yet studying with the scholars, they seemed to be the middle ground between Haqim's two sets of Children.

The important distinction here lies in the phrase "publicly acknowledged."

The need for strength forced Haqim's sorcerers to expand their ranks quickly. The skills of the initial trio revealed the extent of infernal influence within the Second City, and the demon-worshippers and their allies reacted like cornered wolves. A series of skir mishes decimated the judges and left two of the three sorcerers as dust in the streets. The survivor became an

unwilling and uncomfortable liaison between the judges

and the Salubri warriors until he could sire and train

more blood magicians. During the next decade, Haqim brought a score more mortal wizards into the night, as well as undertaking several personal projects, one of which would not come to light for centuries.

The Children of Haqim and the Salubri slowly scourged the demon tribes, known as the Baali, from the Second City, using both patient investigation and ruth lessly overwhelming force. Within a century, the last known Baali sympathizer had been fed to the sacred purifying fires. The sorcerers stood down from their hunting and began to fully explore the power of Cainite vitae as the heart of their arts, each one adapting his own mortal techniques to his new condition. A few

continued to work with the judges, but most dedicated themselves to research.

ang

It was during this time that the three lines of Hagin became distinctly separate. This divergence continues to the present night Initially, the choice belonged to Hagim as to a given childe's or grandchilde's future as much as other factor. Those who showed intellectual promise, he encouraged to join his scholarly offspring. Those of a more martial bent received subtle for not so subtle) guidance toward association with the judges. The sorcerers were a breed apart, even then, but were still indisputably childer of Hagim as well. The castes individual Discipline affinities developed during this time, though they were almost certainly different from those that exist in the modern nights. Hagim most likely instructed all of his childer in the art now known as Quietus, which has

undergone several radical shifts in purpose and method during its history The art of Ausper once sam much more common practice among the clan than it does now, perhaps even as a universal talent

Early records and recollections do indicate that some of the "caste weaknesses," as the younger generations term them, arose during this time as well. The most likely

explanation for the three lines divergent liabilities, barring

the traditional "Caine cursed us of which some other clans seem so fond, is that they stem from Hagin himself He was an individual of immense will and focus, even when compared to those among his contemporaries with whom I am acquainted. If Hagim had a fatal flaw. it was monomania. All too often, he focused on one passiona daly to the exclusion of all else. This defining trait carried itself through the Blood, marking his first line with that aspect of his personality.

That first brood eventually became the vigier caste. In the beginning, their weakness barely merited notice Cainiles were. However, once Hagin's first childer had Certainly, it was no more debilitating than those of other

seen a dagen mortal lifetimes come and ga

their single- minded pursuit of their own particular crafts and studies ceased to become routines and became imperatives. Indeed, some have supposedly destroyed themselves when denied access to the tools of their assorted trades. While fem modern vigiers descend to those depths of madness all fixate on the tasks by which they define then unlives Perhaps this serves them as some sort of moral touchstone

I have seen comparatively few vigiers descend into frenzy, and no few of those were unlearned and directionless before their Embraces

mortal days

The judges, by comparison, embodied Hagim's young in truth, they were always predisposed to violence to some degree or another, even before their province shifted from justice to conflict Second City justice

CHAPTER ONE: HOW QUICKLY WE FORGOT

11

was, to borrow a phrase from the Christians, biblical Violent mutilation was common, as was outright destruc- tion, most often by the rising sun Other punishments involved the ritual taking of a portion of the offender's blood as a reminder that his continued existence was only at the sufferance of his elders -in whose names, at least in theory, the judges acted. One fragmentary writing indicates that the first act of diablerie was the result of a judge's lapse of control while administering such a punishment to a childe of Arikel named Amarantha

00

Regardless of whether that account is accurate, the warriors struggled with a certain thirst for Cainite vitae from their earliest nights though it did not reach its present strength until the Long Night, and not without external assistance. However, the warriors have always been falsely marked as diablorists The oldest judges can call nights when a newly Embraced warrior's soul was almost entirely black with only the faintest traces of his heart's stirrings visible and his skin darkened to match within a matter of yours. Some

that Hagim himself was responsible for visibly marking the judges in this fashion as a means by which all residents of the Second City could easily identify one of their number (though this does not explain why members of the other castes also darken with age).

say

The sorcerers are a matter unto themselves. In some ways, they were the middle ground between the judges and the vigurs. For every one who chose to walk the path of blade and flame, another devoted himself to peaceful studies et they shared the characteristics of neither parent group Rather they developed their own distinct "appearance," standing out so strongly to the mystically inclined all but the most powerful magics of concealment had no to them and all could identify them as blood magicians with but a glance. This too may have been Hagim's doing for in the nights of the Second City the memory of the Baali (and of other blood wizards who bent their talents for ill) made

that

Cainitas suspicious. By marking "his" sorcerers so distinctly that none could doubt what they were and by starting their ability to conceal their presenon Hagim would have ensured that all could know an individual to be of his brood and thus know that sorcerer's agenda. On the other hand, this manifestation may have been spontaneous brought an by the sheer power of the sorcerers early experimentation much as a forge glows with waste heat long after the smith banks the fires

PEACE

Haqim chose to stay within the confines of the Second City: the judges to fulfil their duty, and the scholars to remain close to their mentor.

Haqim took to wandering again, often leaving for up to a decade to pursue his own agendas. In his absence, the eldest of his childer who was in the city usually assumed leadership of the households. This gradually became a semiformal honor and position, and the head of Haqim's estate came to be called the Eldest. Haqim himself gave his tacit acceptance by saying nothing against it.

THE SECOND BAALI CONFLICT

And then, without warning, a border city died. A few battered survivors escaped the pyre of Charizel and returned to the Second City with news of their Kindred lord's destruction. They told harrowing tales of pillars of flame, of spears of sunlight that struck down Cainites as they walked in the streets at midnight, of pits that opened in the earth to swallow temples and homes- and of the architects of this horror.

They called themselves Baali.

The reaction among the Antediluvians was largely one of disbelief and suspicion. Had Saulot's warriors and Haqim's judges not crushed the infernalists centuries ago, broken their power and sent their scattered survi vors howling into the night? Was the honey-voiced satan not sent, broken, into the sea? Surely this was some treachery, another stroke in the Jyhad. Accusa- tions flew, each aggrieved party accusing his rivals of engineering the city's destruction and planting tales of Baali magicians and demon lords to awaken the old fears.

mortal survivors of the massacre and listened. Gradu Quietly, Haqim and Saulot sheltered the forgotten ally, they became convinced that Charizel had been a sacrifice, the centerpiece of a ritual whose ultimate

ther investigation; Saulot demanded action. Within a objective remained undetermined. Haqim favored fur- fortnight, the mightiest of the Salubri warriors rode could spread. forth, bent on stamping out the infestation before it

be dwelt upon in this account.

The story of their fate is well recorded and need not

Haqim's broods prepared for battle as best they were able, gathering what allies they had among the other Cainites and taking the then-unprecedented step of arming their ghouls with ensorcelled weapons. Rather than attempt to defend the walls of the Second City itself, they mustered their forces in the ruins of a village some four nights' travel away from the walls, along the

most likely route of approach for the Baali.

CLANBOOK: ASSAMITE

For nearly half a millennium, the Second City enjoyed as much of a golden age as was possible for such a concentration of powerful, self-righteous beings. Members of the Fourth and Fifth Generations began to leave during this time, establishing their own domains across the region. Most of the Children of

12

06

"Most likely," in this case, was a poor estimation. The judges and sorcerers were in the process of fortify ing the place they had chosen for their stand when a ghoul messenger arrived, near death from exhaustion and a dozen wounds. He carried word that the Second City was under assault from the opposite direction. The Baali, it seemed, paid little heed to conventional meth ods of travel when they had the wings of demons to speed them on their way.

The Eldest, a judge named Mancheaka, led the Children and their allies and servants on a rapid over land march, determined to reinforce the City before it fell. Near dawn, as the column prepared to take shelter from the sun in a network of caverns, their outriders were obliterated by a storm of spears and flame. The main body of the force came under attack moments later. Mancheaka and her brood met Final Death hold ing off the attackers, but their actions bought the survivors time to take shelter in the caves.

As the remaining judges and their comrades re- grouped in the sheltering darkness, they began to assemble what little knowledge they had about their situation. Several had glimpsed familiar faces among the attackers, members of the broods of Saulot, Ventrue

and Lasombra who had been thought to be close allies of the Children. Mancheaka's forces, it seemed, had been operating under false information for weeks --- Baali sympathizers had deftly tricked the judges into stripping away many of the city's most potent defenders.

The day and night that followed were nearly the end of the judges and sorcerers. The Baali and their demon lackeys hounded the Children of Haqim through the caverns. To their credit, the judges' spears took many of their enemies, and the arts of the sorcerers bound and slew with desperate strength, but the weight of numbers and the momentum of the attack lay with the Baali.

Near dawn of the second night, the last remaining sorcerers gathered in the most defensible of the caverns. As they prepared their wards for the coming assault, the stone beneath their feet began to tremble. A ferocious screaming arose, as if the Baali had mustered the very legions of the infernal to sweep the Children of Haqim from the world. The judges braced their spears; the sorcerens gathered their energies.

Then blood began to flow into the cavern. Only a trickle at first, a few drops seeping down through the

CHAPTER ONE: HOW QUICKLY WE FORGOT 13

tunnels, gradually becoming a steady flow that left the surviving Children ankle-deep in cooling crimson.

Then footfalls: light, almost noiseless, slow, as if those of a child tentatively making its way down the

steep passages.

Then a tiny figure, blackened and charred, its eyes burned from its skull, emerged into the flickering light of the single torch that a ghoul had managed to keep burning. "Haqim sends me," it whispered, "I am ur Shulgi. And I am of the Blood."

Over the next century, the Children of Haqim were at the forefront of the wars against the infernalists, pushing them back to their pits and sealing the mouths of hell. The Baali never fully recovered from their massacre in the caverns-they would not be a signifi- cant threat for millennia. The Children rebuilt slowly. carefully, as Haqim watched from afar and allowed his heirs to craft their own legacy.

The traditional accounts of the battles against the Baali seem to be grossly exaggerated, depicting so conflicts on a scale that the mortal population of the time let alone the Cainite population, simply could not have supported However enough similar stories have on passed down to imply that there is some degree of truth to them The most common version among the Children is the one given here. Note the constant empha

is on the noble sacrifices made by Hagim's brood, establishing them as the long-suffer ing saviors of the other

Cainiles. No doubt each clan has its

own such tray

edies

DIASPORA

over the course of the conflict, though never with as The Buali infested the Second City thrice more much strength as they had in those first desperate nights. By the time the threat was contained to Haqim and Saulot's satisfaction, the lands around the city were barren and blackened from Baali curses, sorcerous flame and the marching feet of the world's first armies. Gradu ally, the heirs of Caine abandoned their nest, striking out for the fabled lands that lay beyond the borders.

Haqim had grown heart-weary during the wars. He rarely took direct action, though circumstances forced him to take the field several times. Much of his time was spent nurturing the scholars and training the judges. The sorcerers he left to the prodigy ur-Shulgi and a necromancer whose name is lost to history.

While the battles against the Baali unfolded, the judges found themselves performing their original du- ties less and less. The childer of Caine had little call for the pursuit of one of their number who fed improperly when a village had just been massacred as a blood sacrifice and scarcely a need to find a hidden infernalist when a dosen were battering down the gates. Haqim taught his clan the ways of battle reluctantly, for he had not enjoyed the oldest craft since early in his sunlit life, but he couldn't sacrifice his Children through his own failure to prepare them. Gradu- ally, the judges became war- riors, in fact if not in

name.

GLANBOOK: ASSAMT 14

As the broods of the other Ancients abandoned the Second City, Haqim grew disheartened with his duty. He had accepted the responsibility of administering justice to his peers and their descendants, but they seemed no longer willing to accept his performance of the task that they had set for him. Some ignored him. Some openly rejected him. Most gradually abandoned the hollow shell of the city to which he and his Children had twice served as shields and spears. He quietly consulted with his closest advisors then vanished into the wilderness for a year.

When the Ancestor returned, he gathered his Chil- dren and spoke to them. His words, though marred through repeated translations, are still with us tonight, and have formed the basis for many of our line's acts across the centuries:

Just as the Children of Night acknowledge the duty of a leader to lead, they also acknowledge the duty of his followers to accept his rule. Just as the Children of the Beast acknowledge the need for a hunter to hunt, so too do they acknowledge the duty of the prey to be hunted. Yet our cousins reject their duty to submit to our justice, though they themselves cried out for us to render justice unto them.

\-

Some among them have said that our time is past, that there is no further need for us, that the city is dead and all would do well to abandon it before its final collapse. A grain of truth grows in this we have tended to the threats without at the expense of vigilance within. But the fault is not our own, in large part, for that lies with those who would play their games of scepter, sword and lily with the mortals. as their tokens. Have we further need for judgement simply because our kind has outgrown a single city. There will be

other cities.

The crisis that confronts us tonight is one of duty. We know ours; our cousins made it plain in nights long past. And though they may scorn us, our charter of justice has never been revoked. We, then, must seek new ways in which to administer it, as the methods that we have pursued in the past are no longer the best tools for that trade.

They tell us that the city is dying. We shall leave it to its death throes, then. We will go forth into the war-torn lands, the deserts, the mountains, the harsh, barren places that no others would claim as their domain. There, we will preserve the memory of these nights against the ravages of time. We will watch, and we will study, and we will wait. And when the need for our justice once again becomes so great that we cannot stand idly by and watch our cousins' acts, we will come forth, and memory will be our spear.

The Ancestor's disdain for the political machinations of the Jyhad remains strong in the clan even tonight. As a whole, the Children of Hagim hold themselves apart from the political squabbles of other Cainites. This is due in part

to geography, at least before the advent of mechanized transportation, but mainly to a subtle sense of superiority The Children like to feel that they have no need to resort to politics to achieve their aims. This is not to say that no member of the line is incapable of subtlety indeed, many vigiers have achieved great success in the political arena but rather that the clan culture, such as it is, is predisposed toward more direct solutions.

Of course, this political isolation has also had its drawbacks. Absence from the intriques of the Damned means lack of enemies, but also of allies. Perhaps, had we been more in touch with our European brethren, we would not have been at odds with them during the Long Night and we would never have had isolation imposed on us by the Tremore Immortal memories breed immortal grudges and offenses committed during the Anarch Revolt are still fresh for some of those with whom we seek sanctuary. Furthermore, there is the matter of political experience. Whe are new to the halls of power into which we seek to insinuate ourselves, and there is much we have yet to learn about the Camarilla and the Sabbat alike.

DEPARTURE

Briefly thereafter, the Children of Haqim vanished from the Second City forever. A tiny handful of dissent- ers broke from the main body of the clan, rejecting Haqim's proclamation of isolation in favor of remaining in contact with the greater body of the Cainite popula tion, such as it was. Most of these were scholars and artisans who felt that a hermit's existence would be unduly confining to their works. Among their more loyal brethren, these individuals became known as "dispossessed" for their rejection of their heritage. Haqim that enforcing his will would create more problems than himself made no move to stop them, perhaps believing

it solved.

All accounts of the clan's exodus from the Second City speak of the journey as a nigh-unendurable trial. Haqim left the city in the height of summer, and the need for shelter from the sun meant that nearly a third of each night was spent breaking down and re-erecting camp. Many Children went to their Final Deaths as a result of sunlight piercing improperly light-proofed tents. The journey proved no less harsh for the mortal servants who followed Haqim into self-imposed exile, for the journey led through scorched and lifeless lands that had borne the brunt of the Baali conflicts. Water was difficult to come by, food was even more scarce, and vitae was all but unobtainable outside the caravan itself. By the time the travelers reached the foothills of the mountains that were Haqim's destination, fewer than

50 Children and perhaps eight score mortal servants

CHAPTER ONE: HOW QUICKLY WE FORGOT

15

ھی کاک

remained, and most of the latter's livestock had been slaughtered for sustenance.

The ascent into the mountains was equally danger ous, but for different reasons. The mortals of the region had never fallen under the sovereignty of the Second City, but they had heard stories from refugees of the Baali clashes. They had no particular desire to accept masters other than themselves. Moreover, they had encountered several broken survivors of the Baali, and they knew how to fight the unliving.

THE EAGLE'S NEST

The following account of Alamut's founding is gener. ally taken as literal truth. However, it raises several questions, not the least of which pertains to the apparent stone-shaping powers displayed by the Ancestor. Such

talent is unknown among the Cainites-except among one lesser bloodline, which did not come into existence until seven or eight millennia after these events.

It is my personal belief that the "literally accepted" account is incorrect. My research indicates, albeit inconclu sively, that Hagim did not create Alamut.

he merely

discovered it perhaps by breaking an existing magical

amcealment of some sort. However I should emphasize that this is strictly an educated guess

As Hagim's mortal and Cainite followers moved deeper into the mountains, their supply situation became progres- sively more desperate. Hagim was well aware that those who remained were loyal unto (or, in some cases, past) death, but loyalty was no substitute for sustenance and shelter. The travelers had no option but to keep moving- the territory through which they passed was too infertile to support any sort of settlement.

On the night of the winter solstice, Haqim halted the He thrust his spear into the stone at his feet. The mountain exodus shortly after moonrise. He spoke one word: "Here." itself trembled, throwing all save Haqim himself to the ground. When they arose, they beheld a great throne of polished black stone, with the shaft of Hagim's spear pro truding from the place where the right hand of an occupant of the throne would rest. Haqim faced the throne with hands which it had sprung. outstretched, as if communing with it or the mountain from

With a cry, a black-feathered eagle swooped out of the sky, spread its wings to alight on the left arm of the throne and regarded Haqim with gleaming eyes. Then, as if reach- ing some sort of decision, it flew to Haqim's shoulder. The

CLAMBOOK: ASSAMTE

16

Ancestor turned to his Children and said, "Here. Our home is here, from this night until the Last. This place is ours, now and forever to gather, to watch, to remember and to judge. This is the heart penetrated by the spear, the nest of eagles, and it shall ever be known as such."

With a gesture, Haqim sank into the ground along with the throne. As his followers rushed forward, they found the mouth of a cave, sloping downward in a long, wide ramp, far too regular to be natural. Upon entering the cave, they discovered a vast network of caverns and passageways whose arrangement mimicked exactly that of Haqim's pal ace in the Second City.

In the cavern that corresponded to the great hall of the palace, the explorers found Haqim, seated upon the throne, head bowed. His expression appeared pained and weary, as if he had just fought a great battle. Blood trickled from a dozen livid wounds. As Haqim's eldest childe entered the cavern, the eagle launched itself from Haqim's shoulder with a shriek. All eyes turned to follow it as it soared upward -toward the dark, open sky that somehow hung over the chamber despite the hundreds of feet of rock that should have been there.

Haqim sighed and raised his head, then stood, grasping his spear for support. "Here," he repeated, and none could find reason or will to contest his decision.

Since that night, the Eagle's Nest - Alamut-has been the spiritual and physical home of the Children of Haqim. A thousand stories exist about the Mountain and the marvels contained within it, and a fraction of them may even be true. But Alamut does exist, and it remains our heart even tonight. Although many of us may never again see its silent halls, it is a defining aspect of our clan. How many others can boast a home, albeit broken and barred, in these Final Nights?

SILENCE

For several thousand years after the Children settled at Alamut, little of note happened. While this may seem like a coy dismissal of our affairs at the dawn of Western civilization, the truth is that even Alamut's Great Library contains years of crop records and trivial reminisces but virtually nothing of meaning to the casual scholar of history. All three castes gradually rebuilt their strength, granting the Blood to worthy mortals of Southwest Asia and North Africa, and these hardy people became the clan's herds-and wards. Few mortals worshipped the Children as gods-on-Earth as they had in the Second City (a state of affairs that required no few elders to make adjustments to their self- images), but many clan members established themselves as regional lords or protectors of favored tribes. Some of

their names still ring down the halls of history, albeit in forms that few of the original bearers would recognize.

During this time, the castes settled into the roles familiar to the modem observer. The viziers took it upon themselves to act as shepherds of Seth's inheri tors, walking among the mortals and sharing in their achievements, laying the foundations for future growth much as other Cainites were doing in the West. The sorcerers withdrew to a certain extent, clustering around Haqim and Alamut and pursuing their individual stud- ies of blood magic, though they

often sought out specific learned mortals for knowledge that they could not acquire elsewhere. The judges, now almost fully turned warriors, served as the spear and shield of the Children, warding their brethren's endeavors from the interfer- ence of others.

This is a vastly oversimplified and idealized account, but this can be used to a certain extent, as few crist who truly member those nights. While the Children did nurture the mortals of the region to a certain extent, their efforts were no more noble or altruistic than those of any other dan Any intelligent group that depends on a single food source will encourage that food source's growth in order to expand its own population Hagim's brood was no different

In time, the Children spread forth from the Moun- tain and returned to the once-fertile lands that had finally recovered from the Second City's death throes. In these green valleys, they found thriving mortal populations greater than any they had seen in the barren wastes. And they found the forerunners of other Cainite populations, too, expanding outward from the wildernesses into which they had fled.

The expansion of the \[13\] great clans from the Second City had left the area that would become the Middle East with large Cainite populations of the Children of Haqim and the Followers of Set. The views of these two parties on religion, vampiric existence and the proper treatment of mortals were often diametri- cally opposed. Small conflicts erupted throughout the region, encouraged by Cainite strife. While most Ser- pents were wise enough to behave diplomatically and submissively (or at least maintain low profiles) in order to coexist peacefully with the Children, many maneu- vered their mortal pawns into striking at clan holdings and herds.

The Children rarely responded in kind, because Haqim encouraged his followers to make the distinction between a master and his unwitting proxies. He had little stomach for wholesale butchery of innocents. Thousands of years before mortals coined the term "assassin," many warriors were already learning to strike from ambush, stalking those Cainites who fancied themselves puppet-masters.

CHAPTER ONE: HOW QUICKLY WE FORGOT 17

Black Throne again, you have no sire, and I have no Children. Alamut is no longer my house, for you have left me no peace here." So saying, he strode forth from the Mountain, striking down the one childe who dared beg his forgiveness.

All three castes quickly asserted that Haqim's words had not applied to them, and that they should therefore claim the clan's legacy. The warriors' argument was that the Athenian viziers had provoked Haqim by being the first to seek his aid in a conflict that was obviously not

second was in the period between A.D. 117 and A.D. 120, during which he made a score of stops on a journey that took him westward from the Holy Land. In early 121, a party of mercenary warriors met Haqim in the British Isles, apparently while he was involved in an extended philosophical discussion with the Ventrue elder known as Mithras. Shortly thereafter, the Ances tor vanished. All subsequent attempts to locate him have failed.

theirs. The viziers countered that the warriors had been NIGHTMARES OF

the first to strike directly at other Children. The sorcer- ers held that they had not been involved in the conflict and thus had done nothing to incur Haqim's wrath.

In the end, the warriors triumphed, less through diplomacy than via intimidation and a willingness to spill more vitae. The sorcerers might have been able to win the night, had they so desired, but the moderate Amr of the time counseled neutrality. In exchange for their withdrawal from the conflict, the sorcerers gained certain concessions, the greatest of which was the viziers' continued survival as a caste. The struggle left the scholars bloodied and battered, but the sorcerers forced the warriors to concede their opponents' contin- ued value to the Children as a whole.

Haqim appeared to the clan about once a century after that incident, acting as occasional guardian or advisor but never leading. He never commented on the state of affairs within the Children-or, at least, those to whom he spoke kept the conversations to them- selves. He last visited Alamut in 68 B.C., staying in the Great Library for close to six months before departing Those present at the time noted that the Ancestor seemed disturbed, even openly frightful, and that he spent an inordinate amount of time reviewing the clan's

earliest records. He left the Mountain on the night

before the first Roman troops marched into Asia Minor to begin Rome's annexation of Syria and Palestine.

I should note that, with regard to dates, I have taken a minor liberty in editing this history. Most non-Western Children of Hagim adhere to the Muslim calendar, not the Christian one. This system of dating begins its count in A.D. 622, the your in which Mohammed led his followers forth from Mecca in the journey now known as the "Hipa" For the sake of the intended audience, which largely reckons its dates by the Christian calendar, I have made appropriate transpositions

The Ancestor appeared to the Children twice more after that. The first time was in Antioch a century later. Haqim entered the city with little fanfare (or as little as was possible for a being of his power) and inquired into the researches of the sorcerers who dwelt there. The

EMPIRE

dren of Haqim into close contact with the rest of the The rise of Western civilization brought the Chil- Cainite world again. During the time of the Greek city- states and the height of Persian dominance, few clans other than the Brujah, Ravnos, Setites and the Trimisce had enjoyed more than sporadic encounters with the Children. However, as Rome expanded and, later, as Byzantium rose, those kingdoms Cainite parasites moved with them, struggling in vain to control the first mortal institutions that were more complex than they could comprehend.

THE ROMAN ERA

The Children of Haqim never had an extensive role in the Roman empire's life or death. Scattered members of all three castes moved through Roman society, particularly in the eastern and southem regions employment as bodyguards or household troop com- of the empire, and no few warriors found mercenary

manders for wealthy Ventrue and Malkavians.

In truth, prior to the fall of Carthage, the Children

as a whole paid little attention to Rome. It was no more than a distant rumbling on the horizon of history, and Iran, Egypt, Aram and other parties disputed lands closer to home. With these disputes came various Cainite claimants-and other forces as well.

After the Third Punic War, however, the Children could no longer ignore the power that had all but annihilated the North African branch of the clan. The elders of Alamut examined Rome, and at that empire's spoke of greater threats yet to arise. For their part. heart they saw a festering web of Cainite influence that

Rome's own Cainite inhabitants remembered the swords that had aided the Brujah cause during the long wars in fear they might have otherwise had of the Children. Carthage, and their rising strength washed away any Rome needed little urging to turn its acquisitive eyes eastward. By the middle of the second century B.C.,

CHAPTER ONE: HOW QUICKLY WE FORGOT 19

Macedonia and Thrace were under Roman dominion. Another century, and Bithinya and Syria followed suit, putting Rome's knife at the throat of the East.

Rome was never a place of particular interest for the Children, but the Parthian empire was. Arising in Iran a century before Rome's ascent began. Parthia spread through the Mesopotamian region in the wake of the crumbling Seleuciddynasty. Many Children encouraged the Parthian expansion, save for those who had maintained close ties to the Seleucids. Some saw Parthia as a rich ground on which to sate their particular hungers, whether for vitae, battle or learning, while others simply welcomed an end to the chaotic infighting that surrounded their homes. Follow- ing the destruction of Carthage and the subsequent Roman expansion west, Parthia quickly became all too significant to the Children as the force holding the Roman Cainites at bay. All three castes devoted themselves to reinforcing the mortals who could fend off their undead adversaries.

Some of those four Children who held to the Jewish faith post Embrace became active against Rome at least a century earlier than their brethren of different faiths. The sol of Palestine reportedly still holds several torpid elders of our clan who fell during the revolt there. and the ashes of several more elders of other clans who fell to their fangs and blades.

By the middle of the second century A.D., events surrounding Rome had forced the Children to coexist with other Cainites or perish. Egypt, Syria, Armenia and other outlying lands were now under Roman con- trol. Ventrue, Toreador, Malkavians and others came to the lands of the Children. In the Cainite courts of Alexandria, Damascus and other great cities, the castes emulated the European political dance, trading favors and secrets in search of leverage and power. The Parthians and their superb cavalry held the Romans at bay, but the eastern coast of the Mediterranean was now home to far more undead, and the bloody flower of the Jyhad slowly blossomed again.

CARTHAGE

Although few outside that clan acknowledge it in the modem nights, the Brujah fever-dream that was Carthage was home to no few of Haqim's childer. Our clan was the second most numerous there after the city's Cainite fathers. However, a few Brujah elders who still remember Carthage recall our presence there as a uni- fied one. Nothing could have been farther from the truth.

In the outset, Carthage was a trade center and the heart of Phoenicia. Several viziers with mercantile interests entered into partnerships or competition with like-minded Brujah. As Brujah dominance of the city

CLANBOOK: ASSANITE

20

grew and their vision of an Elysian kingdom to rival the Second City took shape, Carthage attracted attention from the warriors and sorcerers who knew their history well enough to recall their castes' original charters. Surely this Carthage could not be the paradise that their brethren's accounts portrayed it to be, they said, for they knew all too well the excesses that open existence among mortals brought. Had Haqim not formed their lines to combat such decadence?

And yet, when the first warriors who wished to be judges again arrived in Carthage, the Brujah greeted them with open arms and bade them stay for as long as they liked. The truth, at least in the beginning, was with the tales that filtered back to Alamut. Carthage was indeed a city wherein mortals and Cainites mingled freely, each doing his share to further the city's great- ness. The Children stayed, suspicious at first but gradually coming to share the Brujah ideals. In time, they became so complacent that they forgot the suspicions that had brought them there.

No two accounts agree on the exact point at which the Carthaginian Children discarded their heritage and joined the Baali's rites that the most decadent of the Brujah conducted. At some point between the First and Second Punic Wars, however, a visiting warrior discov ered this treachery when his childe, flushed with the excitement of the forbidden, invited him to partake of the blood of a childe sacrifice. He cut his way out of the city and fled to Alamut, his steps dogged every inch of the way by a pack of maddened traitors and their allies and debauched servants. The initial response was swift and bloody, as a cabal of sorcerers turned the revenants back upon their masters, some of whom had remained behind in Carthage.

By the end of the Second Punic War, warriors and sorcerers cautiously crept into Carthage, guided by the remaining viziers who had not succumbed to the city's madness. In a city so filled with Cainites, they could easily disguise their intentions and, in some cases, conceal their

presence for months or even years. When Rome landed its finishing blow in 146 B.C., the loyal Children silently struck at their decadent, vitae-bloated brethren, crippling their support of the Carthaginian Brujah at a time the city's masters needed every ally.

when

Unfortunately for the Children who were within the city, the Roman forces cared nothing for hidden allies (or even enemies of their enemies). Only a ragged handful of survivors escaped Carthage's fall. The Ventrue and Malkavians and their allies cut down the rest along with every other Cainite within the walls. We could not forgive the Romans, for they knew, and they did noth- ing to spare those of our blood who stood to assist them.

Nor could we forgive them the deaths of those Children who stood with Carthage, for, misguided though they may have been, they were our brethren, and it was our place to punish them.

When I first visited Carthage, it promised to spring forth as the fulfillment of an ager old dream. When I last saw it, it had flowered into a nightmare unsurpassed in history. The city is best forgotten

BYZANTIUM

The western portion of the Roman empire crumbled by the end of the fifth century, eaten from within by civil war and from without by barbarian invasions. In the East, however, the city of Byzantium formed the core for a continuation of the empire.

A sharp division arose within the Children of Haqim. Most of the clan felt that Byzantium was the mortal kingdom that would unite the world as Rome had failed to do. As such, it would forever remain a power that others would be forced to ally with or oppose

there could be no middle ground. The division arose from differing views on such a power's treatment. Some Children felt that the long centuries of isolation were a thing of the past, that it was time to coexist with other Cainites, that Byzantine expansion was as inevitable as the sunrise and it was best to be safely ensconced in a political haven when that dawn came. Others believed that as long as Persia and Arabia remained strong. Alamut and its surrounding lands would be free of the threat of the other clans-the Children should devote all their resources to the opposition of Byzantium.

This division never came to open bloodshed, but it drove a wedge of mistrust through the clan's heart. Those Children who supported the Byzantine courts sneered at their Eastern brethren, considering them staid and incapable of change. Those who kept to the Eastern nations found their Western counterparts mer- curial, rebellious and untrustworthy.

THE LONG TWILIGHT

into the Dark Ages as Rome thrashed itself to death. Kings came and went, and Europe fell whimpering

Byzantium hung on longer than the West, but in time it passed as well. In our homelands, the Children nurtured the cultures of the Persians and the Arabs. Some brave souls, hungry for new domain, rode with the expeditions that went south and east, tentatively prob ing along the burgeoning trade routes, searching for any signs of the threats we had found there before. In time, we met the natives of Taugast and India and, though we were never comrades, some among us learned how to

CHAPTER ONE: HOW QUICKLY WE FORGOT

21

avoid offending them. This did not lend itself to heavy expansion, but a steady trickle of knowledge and respect began to flow both ways.

Many European military actions during this time relied heavily on mercenaries, and Cainite practices mirrored those of the mortals. Members of all castes, though most commonly warriors, found acceptance in the Western courts as hired swords or court advisors. The warrior caste's practice of a tithe to one's sire of any such earnings arose during this period. Caste apocrypha attributes it to the Caliph of the time, the Ethiopian spearmaster Mohara. Mohara, upon learning that all four of his childer intended to take a blood-contract with a widely distrusted Lasombra prince, said in dis- gust, "If you must sell yourselves so cheaply, the least you can do is send me a portion of the gold you will earn, that I may be compensated in some small measure for the curse of undeath that you whore for no good cause." Mohara's childer took his sarcasm at face value and sent him a fifth of their earnings every year. Other warriors. seeing the Caliph's own progeny doing this, began to curry favor with their own sires and superiors by tithing in a similar manner.

Aside from such endeavors, Europe was largely an unwelcoming, even hostile, place during these centu ries. The rise of Christendom brought suspicion of paynim and "pagan outlanders," and many of the Chil- dren were of mortal stock that stood out in Germany or France (though the Iberian Peninsula was more wel coming of swarthy non-Christians).

The East, by comparison, was a more comfortable home, though by no means a paradise. The rise of the Sassanids in Persia brought with it a centralized militant government that stirred the cold hearts of many war- riors. However, between the fourth and sixth centuries, the Arabian Peninsula fell into its own Dark Age as trade routes declined. The peace between Persian and Byzantium deprived the Arabian economy of the con- stant enrichment from the nearby war. In an odd compromise, the viziers and the warriors both stoked the fires of acquisitiveness in both kingdoms, contribut ing to the renewed outbreak of conflict in the sixth

century.

Тне Рворнет

In the late sixth century, a mortal was born who forever shaped the destiny of his homeland. His name was Mohammed. In the year 609, God spoke to him through the angel Gabriel. By his death on June 8,632, he had achieved what no Western prophet before him had: He conquered his own holy land and achieved

military, political and religious power within his own lifetime.

He also conquered the souls of the Children of Haqim.

The Children had watched Jesus come and go some six centuries earlier with disinterest. Judaism was strong in those who had held it before receiving the Blood, but it attracted few new converts. The Zoroastrian and Mithraic religions were dying or dead among the mor- tals and in decline among the Kindred. But the Prophet was the best of all that the Children cherished among the mortals. He was strong, yet humble when it was required of him. He never claimed to be more than a mortal man, nor expected to become anything more. His Allah was harsh yet merciful, and he was a propo- nent of ideals toward which many of Haqim's childer strove. Islam's message was not to be forced upon those who did not choose to follow it, for the Qur'an stated. "There is no compulsion in religion."

In early Islamic justice, the warriors (and, to a lesser extent, the sorcerers) saw echoes of the laws that Haqim had created them to enforce. The source of the rumor is untraceable tonight, but as Mohammed's influence rose, a whisper passed through the halls of Alamut that Islam was Haqim's will, that with its appearance came the clan's last chance to redeem itself in the eyes of the Ancestor. And so the Children, now five centuries without their sire, clutched at this faint hope and took it upon themselves to shield Mohammed's inheritors and to take his faith as their own.

Islam captivated many of the Children, but it never achieved the clan religion status that some ascribed to it. In addition to the other mortal faiths practiced by clan members. it had to contend with the memory of Hagim, who many mambored as something nigh unto their personal deity. For every member of the clan who adopted Islam, two turned away from it. Furthermore, several of the tenets of Islam contradict the Path of Blood Allah the Merciful does not promote genocide. In this, the misconceptions of the Western mortals are often shared by their Cainite counterparts

I can personally state with absolute certainty that agim had nothing to do with Mohammed's religion. though he might have approved of it in an abstract sense THIRST

In 636, the Arabs seized Palestine and Syria from the Byzantine empire. Warriors of the Children rode with them, for the infernal tribes had once more reared their heads in the Holy Land. It was our duty to strike them down before they could poison the well from which the word of Allah flowed.

CLANBOOK: ASSAMITE

22

The initial campaigns went well, scattering the Baali's mortal pawns and forcing the masters them selves into a panicked retreat to their unholy city of Chorazin. During the rout, several parties of warriors ranged well ahead of the Arab armies. One of these bands was somehow captured, and the venerators of demons took that small band of warriors to Chorazin with them.

The Children mounted a rescue attempt, but Chorazin's defenses held back the massed might of every warrior who could take that bloody field. The Caliph sent to Alamut for assistance from the sorcerers, and the Amr responded that he and his forces would move to assist the warriors with all possible haste.

With the sorcerers less than a night away, the wall of Chorazin fell. The warriors and their mortal troops stormed through the breach, cutting a relentless swath to the city's temples where the blood cult cowered. As the assault on the temples began, however, the host of the Adversary unleashed their final strike. The warriors clawed at themselves as black fire struck at them from the ground. They howled with an unquenchable thirst.

Seeking vitae, they tore into their own troops, who fled

at this betrayal.

Al-Ashrad and his forces arrived as the enemy surged forth from the temple in a counterattack. The sorcerers unleashed their magics, binding and banishing demons and incinerating the Baali even as they strove to dispel the madness that had struck the warriors.

As Chorazin burned, the combined strength of the Children of Haqim overwhelmed the last defenders of the temple. Inside, they found but one survivor of those who the Baali had taken prisoner. He gasped out a fearful tale, one that few gave credence for months to come. The Baali had said to him, "As you thirst for our blood, so shall you hunger for all blood for all time." Then they had used the captured warriors as a focus for a curse that intensified their ancient craving a thousandfold.

ful hunger that could be satisfied only by the vitae of Neonate and Methuselah alike fell prey to a dread- other Cainites. As the curse spread across the caste, the sorcerers and viziers searched in vain for a way to break it. By the end of the 14th century, the entire warrior caste and no few sorcerers and viziers were afflicted.

CHAPTER ONE: HOW QUICKLY WE FORGOT 23

INVASION

From the distance of centuries, it is easy to acknowl- edge that the Jyhad had little or nothing to do with the Crusades. Population pressure produced too many Eu ropean minor nobles with nothing to do but plot against, and occasionally kill, each other. Fearing wars that would devastate the territories in which it held sway, the Church chose to direct that aggression and acquisi tiveness elsewhere. The Holy Land was a logical target, held by infidels and nonbelievers who openly rejected Christ's divinity. The knights who rode forth to reclaim Jerusalem would be in the moral right, and the wealth they plundered would flow into both their own coffers and those of the archbishops who urged them on. Any Cainite involvement in the endeavor was purely an afterthought as European elders turned their own gazes

toward Palestine.

In truth, the fabled "unity" among the Children only manifested in times of desperation, such as the fall of Jerusalem. Infighting during this time was the bloodiest seen since Hagim's departure from Alamut as varying factions of the clan vied for ascendance and the right to yile resistance against the Consules.

The bloodthirst levied upon the warrior caste by the Baali mounted in strength during these centuries. By the time of the Fourth Crusade, over half the warrior caste thirsted for Cainite vitae nightly. In another century, not a single warrior was unafflicted. As the thirst grew, so too did the warriors' aggression, and even the combined influence of the sorcerers and the viziers was not enough to restrain them.

IVORY TOWERSAND

From the perpective of those who stood in the path CRIMSON BLADES

of the first Crusaders in the twilight of the 11th century. the invasion from the West was nothing less than the opening stroke of an unprecedented maneuver in the Jyhad calculated to erase the Children of Haqim from the world forever. The Christian minority of the clan may have attempted to reason or negotiate, but their pleas vanished in the din of battle. Many escaped to Iberia, only to be caught up in the Reconquista a century later.

The Children of Hagim were far from the only Cainite defenders of the Holy Land, though few are willing to make such an admission even tonight. Many Lasombra were of Muslim faith, as were a fair number of Nosferatu Gangrel Tgimisce and Toreador who called the Holy Land home In the bitterest of ironies, the Followers of Sel became some of our most valued (though never trusted) allies as they defended their own holdings.

Our herds and wards rushed to engage the Europeans in battle, and we could dono less. All three castes joined together in a unified effort not seen in centuries, striking against the Cainite nobility who came with the Crusaders as best they were able. Two and a half centuries of war melted away all facets of the clan that were not essential to survival, forging a blade ready to be plunged into the collective heart of the Westem Kindred. In parallel with the successes of the mortal Assassins, many warriors gave up open confrontation in favor of stealth, guile and a knife in the dark. While adherents to more traditional forms of honor spat upon these treacherous tactics, the new breed of warriors maintained that their own honor was in the service to the Haqim and to their mortal wards; the form of the act was not as important as its ultimate results. This debate continues to the present night and will most likely remain unresolved as long as two warriors still walk the earth.

In the distant wake of the Crusades, the terrible Europe. The Inquisition never really touched the Holy nights that some call the Burning Times came to Land, nor did it extend into the Ottoman Empire or parts farther east. While we licked our wounds and cast childer for the hope of another night's survival. Too our eyes west, the European elders sacrificed their

many of those intended victims survived and fled east, preferring to take their chances with the dread Saracens than with their sires' betrayals and the Church's flame lit crosses. As the Setites gave them shelter for a price and the younger Trimisce and cagey Ventrue gathered them as allies, we listened to them and saw opportunity. The elders who had set their minions upon our havens were weakened and in disarray. Justice was long over- due. When the Anarch Revolt came, we were ready.. Our own warriors surged forth into Europe, lending their own steel and fangs to the tide of rage.

hugely disproportionate to their actual numbers, or The terror our warriors spread in their wake was even to the number of elders they slew. Their greatest contribution to the Anarch Revolt was not blades, but rather lessons. A modern mortal government would recognize them as military advisors or agents provoca teur. In torch-lit caves and shadowed basements, the greatest hunters of the Web of Knives and the surest swordsmen of Alamut taught the scattered childer of Europe how to lay low their elders.

To be sure, we did not restrain our own thirsts during this time. The Prince of Hamburg still tells the tale of the Night of Ashes, when we slew every Cainite in Berlin, allowing only him to escape with his unlife so that he might tell the tale. Similar stories are now institutional

CLANBOOK: ASSAMIE

24

memories in the Camarilla and the Sabbat alike, lessons as to why we cannot be reasoned with or dealt with fairly. And we reveled in the terror that preceded us like the first cold raindrops of a summer storm.

CORNERSTONES

As the Anarch Movement rampaged across the Western world, Europe's elders feared (rightly) for their unlives. Fear is a motivational tool unlike any other, though its results are rarely those desired by the group wielding it. In this case, fear led to organization. A small band of elders convinced themselves that solidarity was the answer to their woes. By forming some kind of "great brotherhood of all Cainites," they could provide the anarchs a cause greater and more enduring than their hasty movement-oh, yes, and enforce Caine's First Tradition in order to ensure that the Inquisition never rose against all Cainites again. Needless to say, the Chil dren of Haqim were not impressed, nor were we invited to lend our hands to laying this ivory tower's foundations.

The Camarillo issued a token invitation to the Children of Hagim is that later, they could truthfully claim to have done so. The Ventrue elder Hardestadi then allowed the emissary's travel plans to fall into the hands of a member of the Web of Knives, who summarily slow the unfortunate nenate and consumed her heart's blood. The inoitation never reached Alamul and it is doubtful that many Children would have wished to accept it in any event THE GREAT LIE

The Camarilla grew rapidly as its founders con- vinced more and more anarchs to come in from the cold. This enraged many Children operating in Europe who saw their erstwhile allies deserting them for the promise of sanctuary that they could have earned for themselves anyway if they had possessed the strength to continue their fight. They turned their attention to this Camarilla with a fury born of betrayal.

The Great Lie began simply enough, its seed cast onto fertile ground by the Tremere Errius, who sought a way to reason with us in order to stop our attacks. One of his younger subordinates commented that he had heard tales of peaceful Assamites who dwelt far to the east, to which Etrius responded, "But that is the heart of the matter. Though some tell tales of peaceful Saracens, I have never seen one with these eyes. They may exist in some fever dream, but I place my own faith in the evidence that their knives and fangs present. They are killers, nothing more, and anything else they might have been died long ago, presumably by their own hands."

The warriors heard reports of similar statements from across Europe. Their pride swelled. Their strength

CHAPTER ONE: HOW QUICKLY WE FORGOT

25

and accomplishments were so great as to erase the very memory of the viziers and the sorcerers from the minds of the other clans. In a thousand subtle ways, they fueled these impressions: a chance remark here, the silencing of a too-vocal vizier there. Memories were all too willing to fade when confronted with an apparently unified threat.

By 1486, the Camarilla believed in the Assamite threat enough to declare its first and last Blood Hunt against an entire clan.

THE BLOOD-WITCHES' CURSE

shrouded ceiling of the Great Hall, he stepped down from the Black Throne. In his last act, the Eldest charged the Caliph, Jamal, to redeem the Children for his failure. Then Jamal stripped the Eldest of the Blood and ascended to the Black Throne. Our centuries of disgrace had begun.

The saga of the Assamite antitribu began within a fortnight of Jamal's assumption of the Black Throne Several ancient warriors felt that to accept the Tremore curse was the height of cowardice and that such quiet acceptance was a stain upon the clan's honor regardless of the fact that the sorcerers had yet to identify the means which the Tremere had found the power to enact their witchery

The Convention of Thoms ended the Anarchy Revolt in 1493. As the anarch threat ebbed, the Camarilla shifted its attention almost exclusively to us. The fall of Granada the year before stripped us of our last Moorish allies in Europe, and French Toreador and Ventrue marched with Charles VIII to burn us out of Italy the year after. Gradually, the concerted might of seven clans forced our warriors out of Europe. The few remaining European viziers and sorcerers fell as well, victims of their own heritage as Tremere blood magic guided the pogrom.

In late 1495, sentries found a lone Nosferatu wan- dering the slopes of the Mountain, bewildered and disoriented by Alamut's array of concealing magics but somehow there nonetheless. He was quickly brought to the du'at council. His memories were mined and then plundered (rumor has it that he rests in torpor in the haven of one of Haqim's followers to this night), but he had done his damage. If one Camarilla Cainite could find Alamut, others might as well, and that could not be allowed to happen. In order to render justice later, we had to submit to injustice for a time. The Eldest reluc tantly sued for peace. Many Children saw the result, 1496's Treaty of Tyre, as a token capitulation that only need be heeded as long as it was a convenient sop for Camarilla paranoia.

Then the Tremere laid their curse. In the space of a week, every one of the Children found himself wracked by numbing agony and, upon awakening, was incapable of imbibing the vitae of a member of any other clan- or even one of the clanless-without risking torpor or Final Death. The result was shock and terror. How had the blood-witches managed such a feat? A curse levied upon an entire line was outside the realm of even the mightiest sorcerers- even that which the demon- worshippers enacted so long ago had been fueled by the spite of the Adversary himself.

The Children demanded a response, and the du'at council found the Eldest guilty of leading the Children to humiliation. In a solemn ceremony under the cloud

Several of the sorcerers supporting these warriors believed they had found a means by which the Tremore spell might be broken. One their word, these so called Unconquered set forth from Alamut to journey to the hell city where the infernalists had cursed their line. Although the Baali were little but a distant memory by now, the sorcerers believed that the place from which that ourse had sprung might yield clues to the breaking of this new one.

The effort did not go as anticipated. While the sorcerers were able to reawaken one of the cursed allars and strip the power of the Tremore blood from their own small band, they also awakened something else that had lain buried beneath Choragin for nearly a millennium. No two survivors of that night tell the same tale of the bloodstorm that came after, but at its end, every vigier and sorcerer who had ridden with the Unconquered was destroyed, the secret of their success lost with them. The eldest surviving warrior, Ighim and Agrael, led his tattered followers forth from the ruins of that blighted city in search of a new home. In time, they joined the nascent Sabbat, accepting the name "Assamite antitribu" and the chance to kill Cainites of the Camarilla

THE MARCH OF

"PROGRESS"

In the centuries that followed, the Children ven- tured forth cautiously from the East. Most of those who came forth were warriors, their bloodthirst now tem- pered by Tremere magic. Few other Children left the Middle East, the better to lend credence to the decep tion that was still in place. Few Camarilla Cainites so much as suspected the existence of the viziers or the sorcerers-which, so far as Jamal was concerned, was all to the best.

The New World held no particular imperative for us, but some of our warriors set forth for foreign shores

CLANBOOR: ASSAMITE

26

in search of a cure for the curse or an opportunity to leave behind its stinging disgrace. The North American colonies were too inhospitable for most of us, save for those Unconquered who found themselves on Ameri- can shores. However, the native peoples of Aztlan were a different matter Members of all three castes settled in the jungle cities, glutting themselves in savage blood rites and marveling at the wondrous achievements of those cultures. Some of those pioneers, or their descen- dants, still remain in the great cities of Mexico and Brazil and in lofty ruins in the Andes.

Closer to home, the struggle against the curse fared ill. A mortal generation after the Treaty of Tyre, the Trimisce took the opportunity of the Ottoman Empire's invasion of Europe to strike at the Camarilla. We were more than eager to lend our own skills to the effort, which culminated in 1529 with a yearlong siege of Vienna itself. Our sorcerers flocked to the Turkish forces, eager to test their magics against those of the Tremere. In the end, Austria proved equal to the challenge, but for every one of the Children who fell. the ashes of two Warlocks brightened the sunrise. A second siege in 1683 fared no better, and Ottoman power declined with their losses.

While the other clans expanded into the New World, we turned our attentions west and south. With the British colonization of India, the forces that had opposed our movement in that direction suddenly van- ished. We cautiously extended our strength, careful to not reveal ourselves to the British Ventrue of the area. The broods of several ancient Ravnos lent their support to us, granting substantial domains in exchange for the aid of our knives against the Europeans. In time, the vast cities of Bombay and Calcutta became homes to us as well. Many Children found peace-or at least serenity

in the teachings of the Buddha, and the thousand gods of the Hindus whispered to us of mysteries unrevealed.

Throughout the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries, we were largely observers at the wayside of Cainite history. The Camarilla came to regard us as toothless and harmless, an emasculated curiosity-but one still useful, as Alamut's records of mercenary contracts prove. Many warriors found chances to kill Camarilla Cainites after all-in the employ of other Camarilla members. Vitae came to be the standard currency by which one could buy our services, explained as a religious devotion to Haqim. The Camarilla laughed at our foolish devo tion to a nonexistent creature of legend and paid freely in coin they thought we could not spend. Few, if any, ever suspected our other uses for their blood. In his search for a cure to the curse, the Amr had struck upon

CHAPTER ONE: HOW QUICKLY WE FORGOT 27

CAM

the ritual he named the Renewal of the Soul, by which a sorcerer of sufficient strength could condense the essence of a sufficient quantity of vitae and confer a sort of false diablerie upon the beneficiary. The sorcerers demanded little for this service, save a quantity of vitae equal to that required by the ritual; this payment flowed into their laboratories, where it fueled the continuing battle against the curse.

Material samples also make for highly effective political leverage

THE CENTURY OF BLOOD

In the span of a mortal generation, the world burned and bled twice. The first time, our warriors wept for the death of honor at the hands of hollow-cheeked boys with eyes of glass and spears of lead. The second time, they embraced the storm of metal as it swept across North Africa. Germany was no friend to us, but the lessons they taught gave us hope. Stripped of strength after the Great War but arising to shake the foundations of the world again in thirty years, the Third Reich was a shining example to us of the renewal we could achieve. Among the lies, misdirection and propaganda, we watched. We should have paid more attention to the tot at its heart rather than the gleam and thunder of its hands. History repeats itself.

We learned from the Allies, too-the first nights of the Special Air Service and the blood-price the Rangers paid on the cliffs at Normandy, the thin gray lines of starving men in the Russian factories and fields, the desperate, secret struggle of the French Resistance. From these, we learned the strength that can be born of desperation, and we finally understood the Camarilla.

And when the war in the Pacific ended in a sky- searing fireball and the howl of a maddened sun, it was the viziers' and sorcerers' turn to weep. The mortals had learned to chain the lightning, and we knew from nights of antiquity that the world bleeds in threes.

The Great War was a war for the viziers, with the mad pace of innovation outstripping the art of the battlefield. The Second World War was a war for the warriors, as the mortals gained the knowledge to use their newfound weapons to greatest effect. When the world bleeds again, it will be a war for the sorcerers, and that blood will feed upon their magic.

"PEACE"

After the fires had died and the ashes had cooled and the dead had been sunk in the earth, the mortals re- drew the lines on their maps. They wreathed Europe in cement and wire, broke Germany's back (but left Aus- tria to itself), placed America on a pedestal and

CLANBOOK: ASSAMITE

28

partitioned the Middle East based on some Western madness. And in the process they partitioned us, for we clung more tightly to our mortality than we cared to admit. The Leopards of Zion, recurring martyrs for the Jewish faith, rose again to defend Israel from other Cainites, and we bade them fortune. India drew in on itself, looked at its past, found the future there, and began to quietly build. We watched and marveled that such strength could grow unnoticed. The Arabs bat- tened on a diet of oil and turned the deserts green. We learned anew the power that comes with wealth.

It is having learned these bitter lessons that the Children of Haqim face each new night. The sorcerers' war looms, replacing crushed herbs and graven symbols with wands of fire that cut across the sky and horned imps who lie and connive in their staterooms. Even the Children of Haqim themselves are not exempt-the great Schism that divides us into sects and cults of personality have no lesser toll than the wars of nations or the bloody theaters of the "Kindred's" grandest Jyhads.

It is a sad legacy, true... but is it one of failure? Or of victory at crippling cost? We shall tell before we greet too many new nights.

So How MANY ASSASSINS ARE THERE, ANYWAY?

The number of warrior-caste Assamites who actually worked as contract assassins prior to the Schism (see Chapter Two) is indeterminate. Of these, perhaps half are warriors, and only half of those are actual combat specialists of one type or another.

The numbers dwindle further when one consid- ers how many of those actual warriors are not assassins, either by skill or temperament. When all is said and done, perhaps a few score Assamites worked as fulltime assassins immediately prior to the Breaking and the Schism, and maybe twice that number apocryphally sought occasional employment to supplement their other pursuits. However, the Ventrue records maintained by the Inner Council on unsanctioned Camarilla contracting list over 2000 names of Assamites hired for assassination since the Treaty of Tyre. Either the estimates are frightfully incorrect, or the Assamites often used alternate identities to confuse their benefactors, or other parties claiming to be Assamites executed Some of those contracts....

CHAPTER ONE: HOW QUICKLY WE FORGOT

29

CHADTUR TWO

PRAYERS 10 BROKEN STONE

Hard pressed on my right. My center is yielding. Impossible to maneuver. Situation excellent. I am attacking.

\-Ferdinand Foch at the Battle of the Marne

Until the last nights of the 20th century, the Assamites were an impenetrable mystery to the rest of the Cainite world, all sharp steel and thinly veiled threats. Recent events, however, have brought to light aspects of the clan that few had previously considered possible, let alone likely. While the clan's contract assassins and their ilk are no less formidable, they are far from being the only Assamites. The clan has a unique tripartite structure that few outsiders have knowingly glimpsed in the past millen- nium. This odd "family tree" has its roots in the Second City and has remained relatively stable into the modern nights.

Scholars of Cainite history and physiology disagree on the reasons by which the Assamites' caste structure has survived over the centuries. The most well-known theory, proposed by noted Malkavian Dr. Douglas Netchurch, has to do with evolutionary pressure. During the millen- nium or so after the fall of the Second City, many Assamites settled in the Middle East, an area of the world that other clans largely scored. This gave the clan's main population a degree of isolation unknown to the vampires

of Europe, who had to contend with members of close to a dozen other clans for territory and social position.

By comparison, the Assamites had relatively few neighbors to fill the various niches that inevitably develop. in Kindred society: the Followers of Set, who were more competitors than allies, and a scattered few Nosferatu, Toreador, Gangrel and Trimisce, all of whom tended to their own affairs. Lacking competition for certain roles, the clan thus maintained its separation of duties over the millennia rather than becoming specialized to one par- ticular mode of existence. The viziers tended to the mortal herds, the judges (now the warriors) tended to the clan's defense, and the sorcerers pursued their secrets. This division of labor allowed the Assamites to succeed on their own where a clan priding itself on its specialization, such as the noble Ventrue or the socialite Toreador, would have failed. Some Cainite scholars believe that the clan's own internal caste system evolved parallel to those em- ployed by the mortal cultures of the region.

Needless to say, this theory meets with considerable opposition, particularly from Cainites who consider them-

CHAPTER TWO PLAYERS TO BICKEN STONE 31

WHAT'S IN A NAME?

This book refers to the Assamites by several names, seemingly interchangeably. To avoid argu- ments over Old Clan Assamites and True Children of Haqim and the like, we'll just come out and say it:

The Assamites are the same thing as the Chil dren of Haqim (or the Sons of Haqim, the Daughters of Haqim, or Haqim's Children). All three castes (warriors, viriers, and sorcerers) are equally Assamites. Assamites of all political affiliations or lack thereof (loyalists, schismatics, antimbu and dispossessed) are equally Assamites, too.

So why all the different names?

The difference between "Assamites" and "Chil dren of Haqim" is a matter of linguistics and perspective. The clan has always referred to itself as the Children of Haqim (or various permutations on that name). The Assamite name probably came into being a few centuries before the Crusades due to other Cainites mishearing or mispronouncing "Children of Haqim" in Arabic. The only members of the clan who refer to themselves as Assamites are either speaking to non-Assamites or never received an extended intro- duction to their Cainite culture from a Child of Haqim sire. Among their siblings, all Children of Haqim refer to themselves by that name ora variation of it, never by the outsiders' term for them.

For the purposes of this book, the two names are interchangeable. However, we usually refer to the clan as "Assamites" when taking a neutral perspective and "Children of Haqim" when discussing matters from the clan's own point of view.

selves to have escaped the social roles under which their respective clans labor. Some of its most vocal proponents are Ravnos and Gangrel, who, unsurprisingly, favor the idea of Cainite adaptation to new challenges, and several Caitiff, who use it to support their claims that uniqueness is to a vampire's benefit. Strangely, no Assamites are known to have spoken on the issue. Perhaps this is not so surprising when one considers the matter from the clan's own self-reliant perspective. The Children of Haqim simply are--though in the Final Nights, even this long- held tenet wears thin.

WHERE THE ASSAMITES ARE TONIGHT

With the coming of the Final Nights, the Assamite clan is in a state of flux. Recent developments have shattered the Cainite world's preconceived notions of what Assamites are, and many of the clan's own long-held beliefs are in disarray. As much as a third of the Assamite population has petitioned for membership in, or at least a

truce with, the Camarilla, while another third seems to have redoubled its efforts to wipe every other vampire from the face of the planet. The only certainty where Haqim's childer are concerned is that their current state of upheaval will shake the foundations of Kindred society- as, indeed, it already has.

CLAN STRUCTURE

Although organizing vampires is much like herding predatory beasts, the Assamites maintained for millennia a hierarchy unsurpassed by any clan save the Tremere (and some would claim that the Warlocks cheated by coming into the vampiric world with an organization already in place). This structure has broken down under the strain of recent events, but both of the clan's major factions maintain enough of it that it is still worthy of

examination.

As a qualifier, the "rule" of Alamut is far from abso- lute, even given the potency of the elders who reside there. Many Assamites have received enough instruction and trust from their sires and comrades that they feel a certain bond of loyalty to the clan. Even if they don't personally place too much belief in whatever version of history they've received, the reception they gamer from other Cainites tends to be harsh enough that clanmates look like the best option for companionship, and association tends to lead to common agendas despite efforts to remain independent. Just as many, however, shrug and ignore their "superiors" when they hear about the latest edicts from the Mountain. Ironically enough, ur-Shulgi's efforts to unify the clan may be doing so in a most unplanned manner, as more and more of these nearly dispossessed individuals receive news of recent events and seek shelter with one faction or another.

METHODS

The elders of the Assamite clan use several methods to keep their underlings at least loosely connected and vaguely focused. The first is blood magic, without which rapid long-distance communication was impossible until the modem era. With a devoted caste of sorcerers, the leaders at Alamut were always able to disseminate infor- mation and instructions to the clan within a few nights--- an invaluable tool for keeping subordinates reminded of their duties. With the advent of radio and later develop ments, scrying and sending became somewhat obsolete, though Assamite sorcery is still less prone to interception than a cellular phone conversation.

Anequally important, and much more subtle, method of maintaining focus is a sense of superiority. Most Assamites who have the opportunity for lengthy conversations with other clan members at least know Haqim's Laws and the basics of their line's history. The traditional emphasis on

CLANBOOK: ASSAMITE

32

this story has always been, "We were asked to stand in judgement, and the other clans walked off and left us, so they have no right to complain if we still do it." The implication here is that, because the other clans' founders asked Haqim to create the judges, all the Antediluvians approve of the Assamites' actions- and Caine never stepped in to stop it. That's a powerful argument for continu- ing to judge and punish other Kindred, even if those other Kindred themselves don't want to be judged and pun ished. Brainwashing and propaganda don't even have to be overt-the best coercion is that which has a grain of

truth at its heart.

Finally, many Assamites have an "us or them" men tality that only a few other Kindred groups can match. History shows many reasons for the Assamites and the rest of Caine's descendants to have an adversarial relation ship, and some fault undoubtedly lies with both sides. Of course, most Assamites won't admit that their clan was in the wrong all that much-after all, it was the fault of the Camarilla or the Setites or the Ravnos or the convenient scapegoat of the night. All blame aside, though, the clan has always been aware that a fellow Assamite is several orders of magnitude more likely to be predisposed (or at least neutral) toward her than any other vampire. In the modern nights, though, this is no longer a certainty or even a strong possibility.

Very few Assamites use the blood bond to command loyalty from their childer. Most of the clan views the bond as a shameful form of punishment, "suitable for goats and liars," only to be used when a neonate has repeatedly demonstrated that he is not to be trusted with free will. The relative rarity of Dominate and Presence in the clan make use of these measures similarly scarce. However, "scarce" is not "unheard of."

HAQIM

The clan hierarchy begins, of course, with the Cainite from whom his descendants take their collective name: Haqim, the Assamite Antediluvian. Unlike those of many clan founders, Haqim's name and even his appearance are well-documented (though no one believes that Haqim is the name he bore at birth). His last recorded appearance was in A.D. 121 in the British Isles, though the clan catalogues at least one "Haqim sighting" a decade. Over the centuries since, several high-ranking clan members claim to have received direct communica tion from him, ur-Shulgi being only the latest.

In theory, the Children of Haqim are still one family, with Haqim as their patriarch. In practice, Haqim is far more myth than reality to most modern members of the clan. Regardless of illuminations and original copies of writings, the Ancestor just isn'treal to those whose grandsires never even met him. On the other hand, many active members of his brood claim

personal acquaintanceship with Haqim - al-Ashrad and ur-Shulgi among them-enough that any neonate who has both the curiosity and the courage can hear several firsthand accounts of him.

With the exception of the tales told by members of the ultraconservative Web of Knives and other Path of Blood hard-liners, most accounts portray Haqim as a man who had grown weary of conflict well before he settled in the Second City. He caught the attention of a member of the Second Generation for his dedication, strength of will and uncompromising code of ethics. An academic by nature if not by skill, he only reluctantly accepted the mantle of authority that his fellow members of the Third Generation thrust upon him. However, once he bent to their will, he was determined to carry out their requests to the best of his ability. Some Kindred scholars theorize that this determination extended to a "whether they want it or not" mentality, and certainly some of Haqim's recorded actions bear this out. The most noteworthy example of him asserting his authority to the fullest possible extent was the formation of the sorcerer caste as demon-hunters, directly defying Saulot's protestations that the Salubri warriors needed neither competition nor assistance.

Haqim's relations with the other Antediluvians has been characterized in legend as tense, a likely state of affairs considering that the other Ancients gave him what amounted to a charter to freely enforce his own code of civility on their descendants. Several of his writings speak well of the Brujah, Gangrel and Ravnos founders, and on one half-translated tablet he seems to express his regret that he and Saulot never repaired their kinship after the conflicts that involved infernal cults. He had little respect for the founders of the Nosferatu and Toreador clans, and granted a wary regard to the Ventrue progenitor.

Toward his own descendants, Haqim was as harsh as he was to other Cainites. However, only the most extreme accounts speak of him as an unfair master. He rewarded success well and only punished failure when it came as a result of laziness or foolishness. If he had a fatal flaw, it was a lack of patience. Many of his long disappearances over the millennia seem to stem from frustration with squab- bling among his childer. His current absence is alarmingly long, even by immortal standards, though some believe that he has already returned to the clan, watching and evaluating them nightly. This theory has adherents on all sides of the Schism that plagues the clan.

THE ELDEST

The office of Eldest began in the Second City as an unofficial honor. When Haqim left for his frequent jour- neys, he would place one of his childer in charge of the affairs of his home. After the Children of Haqim founded Alamut, the position became a formal one. The Eldest (colloquially known as "the Old Man" even during the

CHAPTER TWO: PRAYERS TO BROKEN STONE 33

two occasions when a female held the position) was the oldest childe of Haqim interested in directing the clan in the Ancestor's absence. During those times when no fourth-generation Child was available to take the Black Throne, the du'at chose one of their number as Eldest, with the two council members who did not become Eldest choosing the Eldest's replacement. The Eldest can be deposed by a unanimous challenge from all three du'at members, though this has happened only once in the clan's recorded history.

As defined, the Eldest is the supreme leader of the Assamites, answerable only to Haqim. Throughout the centuries, though, most have recognized the impossibility of exerting "control" over all their "subjects." Only a few have tried to bring the dispossessed to heel, and these met with universally dismal ends.

The last Eldest was Jamal, a warrior who held the Black Throne from 1494 to 1998. When ur Shulgi arose, the ancient chose to test the Children's loyalty from the top down. Ur-Shulgi claims that Jamal refused to re- nounce Allah and was thus "sent... to meet his young god." Jamal was the first Assamite to die in such a fashion, and many schismatic warriors consider him a martyr. Ur- Shulgi refuses to take the mantle of Eldest, referring to Haqim himself by that title.

THE DU'AT

The du'at council is traditionally the assembly of the heads of the three Assamite castes: the Caliph of the warriors, the Vizier of the viziers, and the Amr of the sorcerers. It is the clan's observed authority on matters of policy. Alamut's records put the formation of the du'at as a formal body at approximately 2000 BC. The du'at was the Eldest's closest circle of advisors, though council members often drew information from their subordinate specialists. The council also collectively arbitrated crosscaste disputes that threatened the stability of the Children as a whole.

With the destruction of one member and the subse- quent departure of the other two, it is unlikely that adu'at will be re-formed in the foreseeable future. Al-Ashrad currently seeks to restructure his followers into an organi zation more palatable to the Camarilla, and secret clan councils have no place in such a body. Ur-Shulgi refuses to acknowledge a new Caliph, Amr or Vizier among the loyalists, apparently preferring to allow its followers to sort themselves out without its guidance.

The Caliph

The warrior caste's leader is known as the Caliph. He is, in theory, the greatest combatant among the Children of Haqim, though few Caliphs have been masters of every form of combat. The Caliph's primary duties are to advise the Eldest on matters that pertain to the defense of the Children as a whole and to guide the warrior caste in its

defense of the clan, its holdings and its mortal subjects (when the Assamites had mortal subjects, at any rate). Additionally, should a trial by single combat arise whose outcome affects the entire clan, the Caliph is the Cainite who fights on the Children's behalf. No records of such an event exist, though the fact that this is the duty of the Caliph suggests that such circumstances arose at least once before.

In the abstract, these duties make the Caliph the leader of the largest organized body of immortal soldiers and assassins in the world. In reality, the Caliph is simply the individual holding the leash of a clan of predators who may or may not obey any particular suggestion he gives them. Wise Caliphs choose to guide rather than com- mand, lest those predators turn on the leash-holder.

According to warrior caste tradition, any warrior who feels that the current Caliph is failing to discharge his duties as the foremost defender of the Children of Haqim may challenge the Caliph to a duel for leadership. How- ever, the Caliph has the right to choose whether the challenge will be one of unarmed combat, armed combat, tactical leadership or even strategic military command. Some Black Hand analysts believe that the tank battles of the 1972 Arab-Israeli War had some role in the last challenge to the Caliphate, though this theory is un- proven.

If the current Caliph is defeated, he is expected to submit to ritual diablerie at the fangs of his challenger. Some newly minted Caliphs have allowed their predeces sors the option of suicide by facing the rising sun from the side of the mountain that houses Alamut. Challengers who meet defeat have always been consumed by the Caliph, and each of their descendants is given the choice of destruction or exile. This ensures that challenges do not come frivolously, as the childer of a challenger have been known to pull him down themselves rather than risk the consequences of a failed challenge.

Currently, the position of Caliph is open following ur- Shulgi's destruction of the previous holder, and no one has yet stepped forward to claim it. However, several loyalist warriors have tentatively advanced themselves as possible claimants, and it seems to only be a matter of time before actual conflict erupts.

THE VIZIER

The leader of the vizier caste (also known as the "scholar caste") goes by the title of Vizier. This may seem a confusing arrangement to outsiders, but the viziers are "the" when referring to the Vizier. The Vizier is the accustomed to it, usually applying a subtle emphasis to foremost academician among the viziers and serves as the conduit for information that the Eldest needs from the caste. As the viziers' studies range from theology to particle physics, this is a weighty responsibility indeed. Realisti- cally, the Eldest rarely expects the Vizier to have

CLANBOOK: ASSAMITE

34

comprehensive knowledge of every single item of data to which the viziers have access, but he must at least be capable of identifying the caste's experts and gleaning from them information of greatest benefit to the Eldest.

As with the Caliph, the Vizier's actual responsibilities differ from his ideal ones. The loose disorganization of the viziers more closely resembles a network of academic contacts than a formal research collective, and any given vizier may or may not stay in contact with his brethren and superiors for any number of reasons. The Vizier often finds himself having to coordinate correspondence (or forcing correspondence to occur) between widely scattered indi- viduals who feel the need to pay lip service to the idea of clan and caste loyalty only when they need something

from their brethren.

Traditionally, the viziers elect the Vizier in a simple majority vote every 63 years. No process exists for formally declaring candidates, but individuals who believe they will be able to best advise the Eldest during the next six decades usually come forward a year or two before the election.

The vizier members of the Council of Scrolls (see below) tabulate the votes on every seventh winter solstice (though some more progressive members of the council would like to convene the group more frequently). Any member of the caste is eligible to vote if he can come to Alamut in person or send a proxy (usually a trusted ghoul or servant) within the six months immediately before the election. Until the most recent election, this was a grand gathering of the caste (and a good way for the Eldest and the du'at to gauge loyalties by counting absent faces) that filled Alamut for a month prior to the election, but the nascent phenomenon of air travel eroded this tradition in 1927. Of the viziers who even bothered to vote at the 1990 election, few stayed at Alamut for more than three nights.

The current Vizier is Tegyrius, an ancient legal expert who claims to have marched with Alexander the Great's armies in his mortal days and later watched as Emperor Justinian codified Roman law. He has held the title of Vizier for three consecutive terms, as well as one in the mid-14th century. Tegyrius opposed ur-Shulgi's usurpation of the Black Throne on the grounds that it did not follow the proper precedents for a transition of Eldests. He later followed al-Ashrad into exile, report- edly surprised that ur-Shulgi had not yet destroyed him. His current agenda and location are unknown. Some rumors have placed him at the World Court in the Netherlands, while others hint at a bid for full schis matic acceptance in the Camarilla and an appointment as the first Assamite Justicar.

THE AMR

The Amr is the leader of the sorcerer caste. Like his subordinates, he often walks a middle path between the

CHAPTER TWO: PRAYERS TO BROKEN STONE

35

duties of the Caliph and those of the Vizier. Traditionally, the Amr's primary responsibility is to advise the Eldest on all matters relating to magic and the supernatural, includ- ing the affairs of and the threats presented by other Cainites. This somewhat vague definition means that he must not only deal with magical threats to Haqim's legacy but also with the realm of magical study in general. Additionally, the Amr is generally recognized as the most powerful sorcerer in the caste and thus the most powerful sorcerer in the world (though the latter distinction is more thetorical than quantifiable).

Due to the prevalence of forms of magical communi- cation among the sorcerers, the Amr has a greater ability to issue commands directly to his caste than his counter. parts do. In practice, he rarely exercises this power, as the sorcerers are only marginally less independent than the warriors or viziers. However, on those infrequent occa- sions when the Amr does give an order rather than apolite suggestion, wise sorcerers do not hesitate to obey.

After the Treaty of Tyre, one of the last acts of the then-Eldest was to place the Amr in charge of the clanwide effort to break the Tremere curse. For most of the past 500 years, this has occupied much of the Amr's attention, though he and his assistants have still maintained the magical defenses of Alamut and played an intricate game of move and countermove against the Tremere and their infernal servants.

Traditionally, the Amr is re-selected every year on the night of the vernal equinox. Every sorcerer who is present at Alamut participates in a night-long ritual divination that reveals the identity of the sorcerer who is best suited to lead his brethren for the next cycle of the stars.

Since A.D. 120, the name al-Ashrad has been syn- onymous with the title of Amr. There has been no other for close to two millennia, and many Assamites cannot conceive of the greatest magician in the world being ousted from the position that he himself defined.

THE SILSILA

The silsila, otherwise known as shakari or the Keepers of the Blood, were once the direct subordinates of the d'at. Tonight, though, they fulfil their role under ur Shulgi's fanatical supervision. The spiritual elite of the Children, this small warrior priesthood is composed of those whom the du'at and the Eldest feel are the truest adherents to Haqim's teachings. Spiritually, their duties are the advancement of Haqim's Laws (and, depending on Alamut's political climate, the Path of Blood). However, they are also the keepers of Alamut's library and museum and the core of its defenses should the Mountain ever come under assault.

A sizeable portion of the silsila's score of members declared schismatic loyalty, none are known to have survived to the present night in the face of fierce loyalist

attacks. The rest, all Path of Blood adherents, stood firmly behind ur-Shulgiand continue their stewardship of Alamut to the present night. Most of these are elders in both generation and age (in the terms of the Blood, estimated to be at least 9th generation and 400 years of age) and have reached a profound level of enlightenment as paragons of the Path of Blood. Their composition reflects the distribu tion of the castes within Alamut: Warriors make up the vast majority of the silsila, with a handful of sorcerers and only one (presumed) vizier member.

LESSER OFFICES

The Assamites have never formally defined any positions aside from the Eldest, the du'at, and the silsila However, the warriors have evolved a series of ranks that represent an individual's standing within the caste, and the sorcerers and viziers have cooperatively main- tained an academic and professional ranking scheme for centuries.

PRESTIGE WITHIN THE WARRIOR CASTE

be demonstrated. Clear-cut achievements, whether they The warrior caste has little use for talent that cannot be cleanly executed contracts or expertly forged swords, are the fastest route to social and political advancement. Martial success is the most obvious such path, though no few warriors have gained considerable renown for their lysts and craftsmen. In addition to general reputation, a supporting contributions as tacticians, intelligence ana- gradual progression of peer groups occurs within the experience and acclaim. These have undergone several warrior caste wherein advancement is regulated by age,

revisions in definition and label throughout the clan's history. The current classifications are derived from those used by the original mortal Assassin sect; it is unknown whether they were adopted out of respect or originated as a bitter jest that later gained full use.

Fida'i

Warriors who are new to the blood are known as fida'i, the neonate has the will to serve Haqim, if not the skills. which roughly translates as "devotee." This signifies that Fida'i remain as such until they have demonstrated that they are capable of carrying out the occasional requests of Alamut. Traditionally, this is at the end of a period of intensive training in both mundane skills and vampiric Blood for acts that placed them above the fida'i even existence, though some individuals have received the before the Embrace. Calling a warrior fida'i after he has been recognized as holding a higher station within the incapable of making his own contributions to the Chil- caste is moderately insulting, as it implies that he is

dren and the caste. The closest equivalent to fida'i status is that of an unreleased childe in the Camarilla or a Sabbat "shovelhead" who has yet to prove herself.

CLANBOOK: ASSAMIT

36

Rafiq

Any warrior who has progressed past fida'i status is known as a rafiq (literally "comrade"). A rafiq has proven that he is capable of taking care of himself in the outside world and fulfilling the duties that his superiors assign him. Some warriors use rafiq to refer to any esteemed clan member, though many shy away from acknowledging sorcerers or viziers as rafiq. More commonly, the warriors refer to all warriors as rafiq, thus implying that fida'i are not truly warriors.

Dai .

The da'is are a subset of the rafiq. Any warrior who is sufficiently versed in a religion to be considered an or dained priest, or that religion's version thereof, is a da'i (literally "summoner" or "missionary"). Most da'is are Muslim, though no few da'is hail from other religions. Da'i also refers to any rafiq who has advanced sufficiently far along an alternate road of morality and belief tobe capable of teaching it to others (in game terms, a rating of 7 or more in a Path of Enlightenment). In the modern nights, this latter usage almost always refers to strict Path of Blood adherents.

Ace

This Westernized term has gained more acceptance than the caste's elders would like in the past half-century. When used to refer to a rafiq, an ace is a warrior who has killed five or more non-Assamite vampires of equal or greater strength. The term is largely used by European and American rafiq and by those who wish to emulate them. though it is also common among the Assamite antimibu.

For formal occasions, some aces commission tattoos to present their kill records (though the effort involved in creating tattoos that will only fade by the next morning prohibits the use of these markings in nightly unlife). The current fashion tends toward rows of clan sigils corre sponding to the heritage of each victim, with black circles denoting fallen foes whose lineage was unknown. More casual aces remain content with a clothing, jewelry or armament that bears their body counts, such as a leather jacket with a series of stenciled "kill flags" or a ceremonial scimitar with the names of foes etched into the flat of the blade. At the other extreme, some truly intense individu als use a scalpel and Baal's Caress to produce ritual scarification in lieu of tattoos.

PRESTIGE WITHIN THE SORCERER AND VIZIER CASTES

Although the sorcerers are primarily blood magi cians, their long association with the viziers has led them to value expertise in areas other than the arcane. The two castes collectively maintain the Council of Scrolls, an administrative and academic body that evaluates the skills of would-be scholars and makes sincere (if sporadic) attempts to standardize new knowledge as it becomes

CHAPTER TWO: PRAYERS TO BROKEN STONE

37

available to the clan. This latter task is nigh impossible, given the widely varying cultures from which the Chil- dren of Haqim draw members, but the council has managed to stonewall certain edicts over the centuries. For ex- ample, the current linguistic standards for clan records state that Latin, Arabic, English, Swahili and Sanskrit are the "approved" languages for blood magic. Any newly discovered ritual must be translated into at least two of these tongues before the initial researchers may teach it to any other clan member.

The council's primary function, however, is to gauge the progress of sorcerers and viziers in their respective fields of study. The benchmarks that the two castes use are roughly equivalent, so the same group evaluates aspirants to the titles of either caste. The current Westernized forms of address and recognition were adopted in the late 18th century, despite (or perhaps because of) extensive protests from the warriors.

It should be noted that many sorcerers and viziers could have cared less what the council thought of their achievements. Many, however, at least publicly honored its decisions and edicts in order to gain the approval of their elders. With the Schism, the council is broken, and neither side seems likely to re-convene it in the near future - at least, not in any form that the opposition would recognize as legitimate.

Aspirant

All sorcerers and viziers are considered aspirants until they achieve actual recognition. In most cases, "aspirant" is used as a neutral form of address when an elder does not know or chooses not to acknowledge-a neonate's name ("So, aspirant, what have you learned from this night's misadventure?").

Associate

An associate has shown himself capable of exerting sufficient discipline and dedication to achieve the mortal equivalent of a doctoral degree in his chosen field. A blood magician must have mastered all but the most advanced

would-be master must present the council with tangible proof of her achievements (the Assamite equivalent of a doctoral thesis, though occasionally defended with a blade as well as rhetoric).

Distinguished Master

A distinguished master has proven that she is capable of more than overspecialization by extending her exper tise outside of her primary area of focus. For blood magicians, this entails full mastery of two Assamite Sorcery paths (the primary path and one other, each at Level Five). For more traditional scholars, the requirement involves compre- hensive knowledge of both the primary area of study and one related but independent field (two Abilities related to the character's primary area of study with a rating of 5 in each, preferably with several supplementary ones with scores of 3 or better).

Full Master

A full master has reached the pinnacle of achieve- ment in his chosen field of study and is recognized as being the equal of any authority on the planet (save for those elder Cainites whose ability exceeds that of any lesser being by incalculable amounts). For a blood magician, this requires complete mastery of the individual's chosen primary path, at least three other paths and expansive knowledge of rituals. For an individual specializing in nonmagical studies, this likewise requires complete knowl edge, both theoretical and practical, of the primary declared area of study and at least three related but separate fields.

Emeritus

Appended to any title of master or greater ("Distin- guished Master Emeritus"), this title denotes a Master who has withdrawn from active participation in clan affairs but whose expertise is still acknowledged and respected. Most often in the Final Nights, this is used to mark an elder who has entered torpor. More colloquially, it can also refer to a sorcerer or vizier who has declared dispossessed status by actively refusing to choose a side in the Schism.

demands of his primary path (Level Four and at least two THE CASTES

Level Four rituals), while an academic must be capable of passing a formal examination at a university selected by his elders (a rating of 4 in the Ability that is the character's primary field of study, with appropriate specialties, should they be used in the chronicle, preferably with ratings of 3 in two or more other Abilities that directly complement the primary one).

Master

A master is just that: a sorcerer or vizier who has mastered her selected pursuit. She must demonstrate full proficiency with the highest levels of that art or study, as well as show that she is capable of thinking critically, not just reciting from rote memory, such as by publishing book about her field of study or creating a heretofore unknown ritual. To attain this rank and those above it, a

a

As noted earlier, the Assamite clan has a hereditary structure unlike any other in the modern Cainite world. The unified clan consists of three "castes," or "sub-clans," each sharing certain common characteristics both within its own body and with the other two castes. For example, the lessons of Quietus come naturally to members of all three castes, though each one has its own full set of "instinctive" Disciplines, of which Quietus is but one. All Assamites experience an odd darkening of the skin with age, but the auras of each caste's members shift in radically different manners after the Embrace. The castes may be considered separate bloodlines for the purposes of sire- childe relations- a warrior will always sire warrior childer, and a vizier will always beget viziers- but all

CLANBOOK: ASSAMITE

38

THE COUNCIL OF SCROLLS

The combined assembly of viziers and sorcerers has no direct equivalent in any other society, mortal or Cainite. Its exact duties and powers change with the passing of time but to date have always included the approval of new blood magic paths and rituals for widespread use, as well as review and recognition of new scientific developments to be adopted by the clan, After the Tremere curse, the council's foremost goal became the breaking of that ritual.

The council traditionally consisted of 15 seats, each held by the clan's foremost authority on that seat's area of knowledge (only rarely has any less than a Distinguished Master held a council seat). The Eldest and the dat were barred from council membership due to the potential for conflicts of interest, though many Amts and Viziers were once council members or may be again. Warriors were once technically welcome to sit on the council, though

more than a single warrior councilor has never claimed a

seat at any one time.

With the Schism, the council, like so many other hastions of Assamite unity, shattered. Its members split between loyalist and schismatic support, with at least one dying by ur-Shulgi's hand for her part in the Schism. Neither faction has announced a desire to re- form the council, though it is surely not far from al-Ashrad's thoughts.

SEATS AND COUNCILORS

The following list summarizes the realms of exper- tise of each seat and that seat's holder in the nights immediately before the Schism, as well as the current disposition (if known) of each former councilor. The Seat of the Sum: Mathematics and related aci ences, including cryptography. Last held by vizier David Wendt, current loyalty and status unknown. The Seat of Copper and Lightning (formerly the Seat of the Forge): Electricity and its subsequent daughter sciences, including computers. Last held by sorcerer Sarah Schneier, whom ur-Shulgi destroyed for her role in initiating the Schism.

The Seat of Mirrors: Information gathering and transference, including scrying, surveillance and

three castes are Assamites. Their vitae is indistinguishable except under the most acute observation.

Arguably, the Assamites have no one caste that is "more Assamite" or "more Haqim's" than the others, at least in matters of descent. All three castes have had multiple members of the Fourth Generation who were sired by Haqim during the era of the Second City and perhaps afterward. Whatever the factors were that first defined the castes, they arose during that time, perhaps

telecommunications. Still claimed by schismatic vizier Abid bin Haji.

The Seat of Storms: Natural sciences. Last held by sorcerer Badr Alkhaiwani, current loyalty and status un-

known.

The Seat of the Book: Theology and philosophy, specifi cally excluding systems of belief that are exclusive to Cainites. Still claimed by sorcerer Hedeyat al-Nasir of the

silsila

The Seat of Fire and Steel: Weapons technology. Vacant evaluating American military forces in Iraq since warrior Enrique Salazar disappeared in 1991 while

technology. Last held by vizier Kasparas Sikhonky, be The Seat of Wheel, Wing and Oart Transportation

lieved to be in torpor following a duel with sorcerer Jayakar Dristi Boparai

Last held by warrior Aurora White, believed to have The Seat of Glass and Smoke: Chemistry and alchemy. declared herself dispossessed; current whereabouts un

known.

studies of the immaterial world. Last held by loyalist The Seat of Mistr Spiritualism, necromancy and other

sorcerer Qadir ul-Ghani.

The Seat of Gold: Economics and mercantile interests Last held by vizier Aziti Hisami, currently the dispossessed advisor to the Toreador of Saudi Arabia

The Seat of Dust and Bonet Archaeology and ancient history. Last held by vizier Arishima Hisato, destroyed by ur-Shulgi for unknown reasons.

The Seat of Wind and Stone: Mortal politics, society and recent (less than 1000 years) history. Last held by vizier Fikriyya al-Jurr, destroyed by ur-Shulgi for unknown rea

sons

The Seat of Tongues: Linguistics. Last held by loyalist sorcerer Amaravati, childe and former protégé of al- Ashrad.

The Seat of Stars: Astronomy, astrology and related fields, most recently expanded to include space travel. Lase held by sorcerer Jayakar Dristi Boparai; believed destroyed in a duel with viner Kasparas Sikhorsky. The Seat of Flesh: Medicine. Last held by vizier Dmitri Borodin, believed dispossessed, last seen in Venice.

due to differences between Haqim's broods. All Assamites are childer of their Ancestor, born of his heart and cursed with his will.

From a blood-magic perspective, the castes are similar enough that a sufficiently powerful effect di- rected at one will affect the others. The Tremere curse worked on this principle, banning all Assamites from drinking non-Assamite Cainite vitae. By contrast, the Baali curse laid in the 7th century specifically targeted

CHAPTER TWO: PRAYERS TO BROKEN STONE

39

the warrior caste, but spilled over to some sorcerers and total) degree of success. The caste's mercenary endeavors viziers, apparently at random.

THE DARKENING

All Assamites do indeed grow darker as they age, quite unlike other Cainites, who become progressively more pallid over the years. Several Assamites have charted the rate of this shift over the millennia. Their observations have produced the following guidelines:

Assamites experience the initial post-Embrace pal- lor that other Cainites undergo for approximately two to five years, after which their skin returns to its mortal

coloration.

Darkening begins between 50 and 100 years after the Embrace and proceeds at a steady rate until the individual's skin is obsidian black and slightly shiny. This stage is reached at around the first millennium of unlife. With access to the proper reference materials, it may be possible to determine an Assamite's age to within 50 years by indexing his skin's coloration and luster.

Frequent diablerie measurably speeds the process, rendering the normal dating procedures ineffective.

No Assamite has satisfactorily explained why al Ashrad, alone of the Children of Haqim, has pale white skin. The Amr himself has offered no hints.

WARRIORS

For a thousand years and more, the warrior caste was the Assamite clan, at least to the rest of the Cainite world. This unchallenged supremacy led the warriors to political ascendance within the clan. Their actions controlled the manner in which members of other clans treated Assamites, and their role as defenders of the clan gave them great leverage in determining how members of the other castes interacted with the rest of the world. In time, the warriors came to view themselves as the only true Children of Haqim, and thus his only real heirs.

Recent events have shaken the warrior caste's resolve and forced many warriors to question their shared self- image. The revelation of the warriors' original role as judges of their peers, a mere offshoot of Haqim's "true" first brood, has caused an upheaval of the sort unseen in the warriors' ranks since the time of Mohammed. Still, some factors of the caste's existence have remained constant.

The warriors traditionally make up the Children's most visibly active caste. Their role within the clan is that of the defender, both of their clanmates and Haqim's legacy of justice. As Cainites scattered across the Western world, the warriors gradually became mercenaries, their judicial role abandoned and forgotten with the fall of the Second City. Some applied their martial skills for personal gain. More worked to secure the Middle East against the influence of other Cainites, with a startling (though never

gave birth to the tradition of the tithe, in which a warrior who was paid for his services gave a portion of this payment to his sire in order to enrich the clan as a whole and to

honor the individual who trained him and judged him

with undeath.

In the modern nights, few Cainites dispute the asser tion that the Assamite warrior caste collectively holds one the planet. Indeed, the warriors are perhaps the only of the most fearsome assemblages of fighters on the face of Cainite line whose primary focus is the study of the application of violence. The predatory nature of the Beast

and the violence inherent to the World of Darkness almost certainly been in (or run from) a fight. However, ensure that any vampire with more than a year of unlife has

professions until they see an imminent need for it. The most Kindred don't make an organized study of martial Assamite warriors, by comparison, are as close to "profes sional killers" as vampires can get-at least, in their own

ideal.

This is not to say that the warriors are an organized army, ready to sweep forth from the Mountain in a bloody tide edged with Damascene steel and wipe all other Cainite life from the earth. Too many differences of opinion divide the caste for a unified campaign to be successful. The Arab traditionalists loathe the European reformers, the Path of Blood adherents scoff at the weak- lings who cling to Humanity, the bold swordsmen denigrate knuckle-dragging line troopers. Indeed, only Haqim's the cowardly riflemen, and the aloof strategists sneer at the Laws seem to keep the caste from devouring itself in a fratricidal frenzy.

Despite the name, not every member of the warrior caste is a warrior. Even though it is more a loose organiza- does (in theory) serve a somewhat universal purpose as the tion of individuals with vaguely related skills, the caste sword and shield of the Children of Haqim. For every assassin who stalks the nights in search of Cainite prey, a Alamut. For every tactician who advises a desperate master swordsmith is forging blades in the depths of prince in a defense against the Sabbat, an intelligence analyst is whispering advice over a satellite channel. And for every warrior who receives the Blood for his martial prowess, another gains immortality whose inept posturing is a thin excuse for the preservation of a pretty face. In short, the warriors are no more elite or monomaniacal in their Embracing habits than any other Cainites, though they tend to hide the fact better than most.

defined than ever before. The Schism that now splits the In the Final Nights, the warriors' agendas are more ill- clan has forced many to define loyalties that previously needed no definition. Some strike out at other Cainites in blood-maddened rage. Some fight for self-control and attempt to peacefully coexist with their former enemies.

CLANBOOL: ASSAMITE

40

Some renew vows of allegiance to their blood-soaked gods. Some walk no roads but the ones they map for themselves.

Nickname: Assassins

Sect: Approximately one in five warriors belong to the Sabbat, where they are known as the Assamite anticribu. An equal portion of the caste chose to follow al-Ashrad when he made his bid for alliance with the Camarilla. The remaining warriors remain loyal to ur-Shulgi and Alamut, and are therefore independent of sect allegiance. This does not, of course, count those dispossessed warriors who maintain no loyalty to any faction of the clan.

Appearance: Warriors usually dress in simple yet elegant attire in which they can either blend in or fight as needed. Among the wealthier and more modem members, fine fabrics have become more common. Most warriors are physically fit. An overweight or elderly warrior is either deceptively dangerous or proficient at some noncombat occupation that

the caste found indispensable at the time of his Embrace.

ONE

2000

Haven: Regardless of sect or Schism, most warriors keep similar havens. These locations tend to be isolated and easily defensible, with security measures ranging from German shepherds to German machine guns. When traveling, warriors tend to arrange temporary havens near major transportation channels, the better to make a quick exit.

CH

Background: Many warriors are males of African or Middle Eastern descent, though this is more of a generalization than a rule and should not be taken to imply that all warriors fit that profile. Most come from some profession dealing with the application of force or personal violence in one form or another: terrorists, soldiers, police and hit men are all likely prospects. However, the caste also Embraces professionals in related or generally useful fields: Photo- graphic intelligence interpreters, smugglers, gunsmiths and strategists are all respected noncombatant

members of the warriors.

Character Creation: Most warriors are fairly straightforward in personality, with simi- lar Natures and Demeanors-unless they're used to working undercover, in which case anything goes. Physical Attributes are usually a primary con- cem, though the Children have no use for warriors who can't think on their feet; Mental Attributes are especially valued for strategists and other leaders. The caste values Talents and Skills equally. A warrior who isn't

at least competent in one form of combat is most likely a support specialist whom

the caste considered indis-

pensable. Many warriors have Mentors and a variety of Contacts in their line of work. Generation is also common, slightly more so among the loyalists than among the

schismatics.

Most schismatic warriors follow Hu manity, while a significant number of loyalist caste members follow the Path of Blood. Among the antitribu, the Path of Caine and the Path of Honorable Accord are the most common alternate systems of morality.

Suggested Concepts: Arab prince, arms dealer, bodyguard, bomb disposal technician, bor- der patrol officer, chess grandmaster, gang leader,

EN STONE

IN NIGHTS PAST: THE TREMERE CURSE

Until the Breaking in late 1998, all Assamites were subject to the Tremere curse of poisoned vitae, Storytellers who wish to set their games prior to this time may wish to use the previous clan weakness. Pre- Breaking, warriors are incapable of becoming addicted to Cainite vitae because it is a corrosive poison to them. No Assamite gains sustenance from it, and every point of Cainite blood that an Assamite imbibes) inflicts one automatic health level of lethal damage on him, Diablerie attempts result in automatic aggra vated damage, one health level per point of permanent Willpower the victim possessed, and the would-be diablerist gains no benefits (including generation reduction) if he survives the process. All three castes' auras are still stained at this time, but few consider this a significant liability. The sorcerers and viziers still suffer from the weaknesses detailed on the following pages as well.

gunsmith, hunter, intelligence analyst, Noddist historian, prophet, retired general, secure courier, self-defense in structor, small unit tactician, surveillance technician

Caste Disciplines: Celerity, Obfuscate, Quietus Organization: Loyalist warriors follow the organiza- tional pattern presented in Vampire: The Masquerade. They often operate in packs of two to six members, led by the eldest among them. Each pack (sometimes known by various paramilitary terms, such as "fire team," "squad," "brick" or "lochos") is subordinate to a warrior member of the silsila who has some personal connection to the pack's leader or is familiar with the geographic area in which the pack operates. If and when a new Caliph is chosen, the silsila's leadership role will theoretically revert to this individual, though some silsila members may resist this loss of power.

Those warriors who follow al-Ashrad are usually subordinate to the eldest magus or vizier in their home city. Their vitae addictions and stained auras make them dangerous bedfellows in the eyes of the Camarilla if they're not "properly restrained" by their clanmates. These in- dividuals tend to be solitary refugees dwelling on the fringes of Camarilla society, though some have established themselves as sheriffs or scourges and a few have offered their services as archons. They currently have no formal head, though some favor declaring a "Caliph-in-exile."

The Assamite antitribu have their own unique struc ture which is described in the Guide to the Sabbat.

Bloodlines: The Assamite antitribu of the Sabbat consider themselves a separate bloodline, though there is no functional difference between them and the main body of the warriors in the modern nights. North Africa is home

to a small nomadic warrior line of Bedouin stock that practices Animalism and makes extensive use of ghoul predators and warhorses to maintain their dominion over the thinly populated wastelands that they call home. These individuals hold no sectarian allegiance and are only nominally loyal to Alamut.

SORCERERS

Their existence has long been known to the Tremere, but the rest of the modern Cainite world considered the notion of Assamite blood magicians unthinkable until recent nights. The sorcerers greet this notion with no small degree of ironic amusement, as their own records state that they are the eldest organized blood magicians of any clan.

The Assamite sorcerers originated in the Second City, shortly after Haqim created his second brood to act as the city's judges. The first of their number were mortal wizards enlisted in various conflicts with the promise of temporal power and eventual immortality. They worked alongside the judges as interrogators, seekers of the truth and hunters of demons, and consorted with the scholars in pursuit of knowledge for knowledge's sake. After the Second City's fall, their role expanded to include such tasks as magical communication to keep the clan unified, weather sorcery to nurture the crops of the mortal herds that the Children of Haqim kept and combat threats from both Cainites and other supernatural creatures. During the Long Night, the sorcerers were often at the forefront of Assamite incursions into Europe, particularly in al- Andalus. Near the end of the Anarch Revolt, they became the clan's first line of defense against the Tremere.

After the Warlocks levied the curse, the sorcerers' first duty to the clan became the breaking of that same curse. However, that same period of time brought a shift in the sorcerers' dedication to the idea of a homogeneous Assamite clan. They had been a moderate unifying force throughout much of the Long Night, but the curse seemed to affect them to a lesser extent. Many became dispos sessed and vanished, reappearing a century or more later if at all. No few others fell victim to attacks by marauding Tremere eager to learn the secrets of the Saracens. Those who remained attentive to Alamut's agendas seemed sullen and listless, as if the curse-or the desperate need to break it-was sapping their will.

Only in the past decade have the sorcerers rallied, returning to their former prominence as an equal and integral part of the Children of Haqim. Their artificers and alchemists supplied the warriors with a myriad of cre- ations, many of them byproducts of research into the curse and the nature of Tremere Thaumaturgy. The seers swamped the warrior caste's militants with reams of infor- mation on enemies and allies alike. Those few who still

CLANBOOK: ASSAMITE

42

followed their forebears' tradition of demon hunting swung into furious action, cleansing their territories of servants of the Tremere and anything else unfortunate enough to cross their paths. A furious exchange of information crackled across the global telecommunications network and arced through the ether, uniting brethren unseen in centuries in a resumption of purpose: find the roots of Tremere power and shatter the curse.

Then ur-Shulgi arose. With a week's preparation and a single night of action, it accomplished what hundreds of lesser sorcerers had vainly attempted for five hundred years. The shock waves of its feat, both magical and social, rolled through the caste. All but a tiny handful of sorcerers felt the fluctuation of energy when the Methuselah called upon the blood that flowed in their veins. The caste collectively held its figurative breath, waiting to see what ur-Shulgi would do next.

The resulting conflict between the new Eldest and its childe, the Amr, rocked the sorcerer caste to its roots. All but the eldest sorcerers knew the Amr as the greatest magician in the world, and few re- membered ur-Shulgias more than a name from a legend. The caste's faith in its leader was nearly unshakable-but the appearance of a godling from the clan's dim past was enough to shatter the faith of many. Though al-Ashrad was the Amr, and

thus the leader of the sor

cerers, ur-Shulgi was the new Eldest and

thus the leader of the Children of Haqim. The question became one of loyalty to the Amrover loyalty to the clan.

Tonight, equal por- tions of the caste support ur-Shulgi's bloody vi sion for the Children of

Haqim and al-Ashrad's calm words of moderation, while no few sorcerers walk the path of the dispossessed in the hopes that the conflict will pass them by and they can return to their private studies. The recent upheaval has left many sorcerers out ( of contact with their former comrades, Alamut, and the Amr, and many are now operating under their own "best judge-

ment." free from the shackles of duty and the light but ever-present yoke of the caste's hierarchy.

Nickname: Mags (singular"Magus"); sometimes called "viziers" by outsiders

Sect: The sorcerers are split evenly between al- Ashrad's schismatics and Alamut's loyalists. The only magi who might have joined the Sabbat at its inception are assumed to have died at some forgotten, chthonic city in Mesopotamia centuries ago, and only a few have declared such allegiance since the Schism. Many sorcerers become dispossessed at some point in their unlives due to some argument, real or imagined, with the caste's organi- zational structure or an individual elder's practices. However, a significant majority of these return to the fold sooner or later, either out of a thirst for further instruc

tion or to escape the attention of the Tremere or others who hunt blood magicians.

Appearance: Most sorcerers dress in clothing that allows them to work in com- fort, ranging from lab coats to loose-fitting robes or caftans. Those who spend a lot of time working "in the field" favor military fatigues, pho- tographers' vests or other multi- pocket garments in which they

can con

veniently

store

ritual

components and useful concoctions. Very few

sorcerers wear oc

cult symbols in

public, as they see suchadver- tising as

both vain and dangerous. A sor- cerer who can be identified as a blood magician by his appear- ance is either in his own home, dangerously foolish or supremely confident of his power.

Haven: Sorcerers prefer spacious quarters with at least one or two rooms devoted to

ritual circles and alchemical workshops. Their havens tend

BROKEN

IN NIGHTS PAST: LOSSES OF VISION AND POWER Originally, the sorcerers had Auspex, not Obfus cate, as a caste Discipline, and all opposing powers were two levels up, not one, for purposes of opposing any form of magical cloaking (sce Libellus Sanguinus III: Wolves at the Door for more information on the Assamite sorcerers in previous eras and the Storyteller's Options sidebar, below). As the caste's focus gradu- ally shifted to concealment, their Discipline aptitude shifted as well. Individuals trying to pierce the super- natural cover of modern sorcerers enjoy less of an advantage because mystic concealment is now more of an innate quality than one that a sorcerer must leam as a "foreign" skill.

To perform the Breaking, ur-Shulgi crafted a unique ritual that allowed him to borrow a portion of the magical power of every vampire descended from him. As over two-thirds of the Assamite sorcerers can trace their ancestry tour-Shulgi, this ritual affected all but a handful of them. This ritual's effects lasted in full for a year and a night, then gradually faded over the next year. Between 1998 and the latter part of 2000, all sorcerers found themselves diminished in strength for the purposes of all blood magic, not just "foreign" practices (see Assamite Sorcery, p. XX) and were required to spend one extra blood point for any blood magic invocation, be it a path or ritual. By the end of 2000, these effects had disappeared, leaving the sor cerers with only their "default" caste weakness. This weakness appears in a simplified form in Vampire: The Masquerade.

to be isolated or highly secure, the better to hide their magical practices from the eyes of mortals and super- natural beings alike.

Background: The sorcerers usually select progeny who are strong-willed, disciplined, and able to grasp the abstract concepts and differing perceptions of reality that

Assamite Sorcery presents its practitioners. They also seek above-average levels of education, though this can be provided after the Embrace if needed. Magical potential is not an absolute requisite, as the sorcerers are scholars and scientists as much as they are magicians. The caste has no particular preference for gender or ethnicity.

Character Creation: The sorcerers kept a low profile for centuries and still tend to do so tonight, so their personalities tend to be subdued, at least exter- nally. Like most other blood magicians, they tend toward Mental Attributes and high Willpower. Slow learners and the undisciplined do not fare well within the caste. It is a rare sorcerer who lacks some level of Academics and Occult, though such individuals do exist. Almost every sorcerer enjoys the tutelage of a

Mentor at some point in her unlife, and many have Contacts or Allies in their areas of expertise.

Most sorcerers follow Humanity, though many are rather distanced from its higher aspirations by the end of their first decades of unlife. The caste boasts a moderate number of Path of Blood adherents, mainly among the loyalists. Those who have recently joined or had dealings with the Sabbat find the Path of Caine and the Path of Power and the Inner Voice particularly enticing, and a few Iberian sorcerers are rumored to pursue the Path of Night.

Suggested Concepts: alchemist, astronomer, biblio- phile, demonologist, embalmer, eternally tenured professor, fake mystic, hematologist, herbalist, historian, linguist, mathematician, metallurgist, museum curator, private investigator, Kabbalist, sage, seer, theologian, toxicologist Caste Disciplines: Assamite Sorcery, Obfuscate,

Quietus

Organization: Prior to the Schism, the sorcerers maintained a loose meritocracy based on a combina- tion of skill and academic descent. Status came from a sorcerer's own abilities and the credentials of his teach- ers. The clan's separation has tom this structure asunder, and both halves of the caste are currently re-establish- ing their own social orders.

Both loyalists and schismatics follow the pre-Schism tradition of appointing the Amr, the head of the caste, through ritual divination every year. Al-Ashrad heads the schismatics, to no one's surprise. The loyalist sorcerers have not yet made a formal appointment (or even per formed the ritual since the Schism), but they generally acknowledge al-Ashrad's childe and protégé, Amaravati, as their Amr.

Bloodlines: No known variations exist among the modem sorcerers. Historical records show that the caste was once predisposed to Auspex rather than Obfuscate, but the shift to the current set of proficiencies took place between the 12th and 15th centuries.

VIZIERS

Prior to the Final Nights, few modern Cainites would have guessed that a portion of the Assamite clan could be devoted to peaceful pursuits. Yet the vast majority of the vizier caste is, if not pacifistic, then at least inclined toward studies other than combat.

By the most commonly accepted account, the viziers are the eldest of the three castes. Haqim was a warrior before he was a scholar, but his first brood was one of artisans and sages, each one the finest example of his chosen profession or craft that the Second City's mortals had to offer. Such exclusive selection, so the stories say, caused no small amount of strife between Haqim and the Ancient Arikel, who most Cainite scholars agree was the founder of the Toreador clan.

CLANBOOK: ASSAMITE

44

Indeed, the vizier line appears to bear some vague similarities to the "clan of the rose," though neither group is willing to admit any close relation.

The viziers originated as seekers of knowledge, and a surprisingly strong majority of the line has held to this ideal over the millennia. Indeed, it seems as if the caste as a whole is driven to create and leam, as if possessed by a solitary mania-or guided by a single will. Yet few viziers consider their obsessive impulses anything more than perfectionism or the spark of inspiration (though the viziers are, in truth, no more capable of actual artistic creativity than other Cainites). To suggest that a vizier is mad-or, worse, lacking free will-is one of the greatest insults that one can bestow upon a member of this line.

After the fall of the Second City, as the Children of Haqim settled into their modern caste structure, the viziers be- came the clan's thinkers, creators and occasional leaders, though the warriors never relinquished complete control of Alamut. They were also the Children who, as a general rule, had the clos est contact with mortal society on a nightly basis. This latter state of affairs continues to the present night. While the war- riors gravitate toward the martial and religious aspects of any given culture and the sorcerers seek certain select professions, the vi- ziers tend to associate with nearly any social stratum. However, their innate monomania makes them less than adept at ef- forts to guide, or even slightly nadge, the mortal masses.

The viziers" "caste culture" may best be described as a very loose affiliation of individualists. Most of the caste is as disunited as the sorcer ers, but without that body's resources for magical communication and co- ordination. Viziers tend to keep to themselves unless involved ina men- tor-protégé arrangement or conducting some cooperative ven- ture. This is a product of both the caste's shared psychological tenden cies and the need for secrecy during the Long Night and later periods. However, the Schism and the schis matics' subsequent alliance with the

00

Camarilla has allowed many viziers to exist relatively openly among other Cainites, and no few have chosen to enter social and political arenas-with varying degrees of success.

Nickname: Scholars or Artisans

Sect: Over a third of the caste may be considered dispossessed for all intents and purposes, as their ties to the rest of the clan are marginal at best. The majority of the remaining vitiers chose to follow al-Ashrad to the Camarilla. A significant minority of the caste remains loyal to Alamut. Few viniers are known to exist in the Sabbat, and even these are likely scattered fugitives.

Appearance: As a general rule, viziers are the Children of Haqim most adept at blending into mortal society. They usually dress professionally or informally as the situation requires. Their common particularity (or derangement-see the Storyteller's Options sidebar below) tends to polarize them toward the two extremes of hygiene and style. Many viziers are either im maculate and perfectly poised or unwashed,

rumpled and constantly distracted.

Haven: Viziers tend to select havens that are indistinguishable from the homes of similar mortal professionals. As with personal appearance, de- pending on the focus and severity of the individual virier's tastes, the quarters are either immaculately clean or cluttered so heavily that walking becomes diffi- cult. Many viziers , maintain extensive li- braries or workshops, preferring to "work

from home."

Background: As a caste dominated by in- tellectuals, artisans and a few politicians, the viziers usu- ally Embrace individuals who are both exceptionally dedi- cated to their chosen professions. Fewviziers are Em- braced in the hope that they will realize some previously neglected potential. When the clan was more unified, many viziers selected their progeny on the basis of their abil ity to serve the Children as a whole. The decay of Assamite unity over the past few centuries has seen this practice largely fall into disfavor (with the exception of those re- searchers Embraced to assist in

THE VALUE OF HIDDEN FACES While the warriors remained well known through- out the Assamites' history, the sorcerer and vizier castes became clouded and indistinct in the eyes of Kindred outside the clan. Many accounts refer to them as one caste or bloodline, labeling all nonwarrior Assamites "viziers." The Assaumites traditionally en- couraged this misconception for several reasons. First, as the Tremere rose in power, other Kindred practitio ners of blood magic found themselves threatened Although they were powerful, the sorcerers were also wise. They had no desire to embroil Alamut in a futile conflict with the blood-witches of Clan Tremere, so they disguised their natures. Second, the warriors" growing dominance of the clan in the same period led them to view to all nonwarriors as inferior, and thus they did not acknowledge the viziers and sorcerers is their equals when speaking to those outside the clan. Finally, as the clan moved into a period of war against all other Kindred, the Assamites realized the value of hidden faces: if the clan's enemies didn't know of a resource, they couldn't destroy it.

breaking the curse). Vizier tastes often overlap with those of the other two castes, and occasional disputes arise over potential progeny with particularly valuable abilities. Like the sorcerers, the viziers make no particular effort to Embrace members of any particular ethnic extraction or gender.

Character Creation: The viziers have even more experience at deception and denial than the magi do, given their centuries of "invisibility." Their public perso nae usually reflect this, though many are rebellious or innovative explorers at heart. They are equally likely to favor Social or Mental Attributes, depending on indi- vidual professions, and likewise follow the path of greatest utility when selecting Abilities. Viziers are the Children of Haqim who are most likely to have some degree of Influence in mortal society, and they often enjoy a corre sponding amount of Resources due to professional or artistic success in mortal circles.

The vast majority of viziers follow the moral codes of Humanity. Few adopt the Path of Blood, but those who do are twice as brutal as an average member of the warrior caste. Those few who have joined the Sabbat in recent nights seem to favor such diverse beliefs as the Path of Cathari, the Path of Death and the Soul, and the Path of Power and the Inner Voice, depending on their individual agendas. Once a vizier sets forth upon a Path, he pursues its tenets with a convert's fervor.

Suggested Concepts: archaeologist, architect, art dealer, Bombay movie producer, biochemist, doctor,

forensic anthropologist, historian, holy man, jeweler, journalist, judge, oil baron, political theorist, sculptor. "special advisor,"storyteller, telecommunications ex- pert, translator

Caste Disciplines: Auspex, Celerity, Quietus

Organization: The viziers have no formal structure as a whole. They resemble a loose organization of vaguely affiliated professionals more than any sort of occult con- spiracy or military order. Prestige is generally a matter of who an individual vizier knows and what she's done, and varies depending on the audience-a poet may not be all that impressed by a particle physicist. The caste does have one unique custom derived from Arab scholarly tradi- tions: Academic lineage is considered as important as blood descent. Thus, a vizier's sire may not be as important as his instructors, and some go so far as to present them- selves in such a manner when making formal introductions. As noted above, most viriers tend to their own affairs unless working on a specific cooperative project.

Bloodlines: One group among the viziers was active in Byzantine politics during that empire's nights of promi nence, and its survivors and their descendants still favor Presence over Celerity. Perhaps two dozen members of this courtier line exist in the modern nights, and they are largely confined to the Middle East, acting on their own agendas in the courts of the Ashirra.

STORYTELLER'S OPTIONS

For those Storytellers choosing to highlight the dis tinctions between the Assamite castes, the following optional systems are included. Note that unless the Story- teller chooses to implement these options, all Assamites suffer the "normal" clan weakness as presented in the core rulebook regardless of caste.

In Vampire: the Dark Ages, the castes suffered these weaknesses as part of the "official" rules of the setting. In the modem nights, however, these mechanical variations are not so important as the social and political struggles the clan faces nightly. Almost in spite of themselves, the Assamites have grown closer in the ties of the blood as they have distanced themselves ideologically.

AStoryteller employing these systems in her chronicle should consider the purposes of the various weaknesses. She may also wish to levy the weaknesses in addition to the "common" clan weakness, should it suit the story.

Variant Warrior Weaknesses: As per Vampire: The Masquerade, all warriors may become addicted to the blood of other Cainites. Every time a warrior tastes Kindred vitae, the player must make a Self-Control roll (difficulty equal to the number of blood points ingested +3). If this roll fails, the character becomes addicted. From that point on, every time he comes into contact with Cainite vitae, the player must make a Self-Con

CLANBOOK: ASSAMITE

46

trol roll (difficulty 8) or the character enters an imme- diate hunger frenzy.

The warriors also suffer from stained auras-an inspection of a warrior's aura that scores any degree of success automatically reveals signs of diablerie, even if the character has never so much as tasted Cainite vitae since his Embrace. The caste widely believes this to be a remnant of their judge forbears' practice of ritual diablerie in the Second City. This staining is little problem among the loyalists or the antitribu, but it can be a severe impedi- ment to a warrior who secks Camarilla acceptance.

Variant Sorcerer Weaknesses: The sorcerers claim to have practiced blood magic since the nights of the Second City. Whether or not this is the case, they have been at the task long enough for it to mark them, even those who do not make extensive explorations of Assamite Sorcery. A sorcerer's aura always shows the distinctive signs associated with blood magic, and any observer with the ability to recognize auras will always see these markings.

This manifestation, however, is merely a side effect of the sorcerers' strong tendencies toward blood magic. The caste as a whole has practiced the art for so long that it permeates their blood, making each individual sorcerer stand out like a beacon to anyone with supernatural perception. Any use of a supernatural power on a sorcerer for purposes of perception enjoys a-2 difficulty. Addition- ally, attempts to penetrate a sorcerer's supernatural concealment using an opposed power are considered to operate one level higher than normal (so a character with Auspex 2 trying to penetrate a sorcerer's Obfuscate has an effective Auspex 3).

Note that these weaknesses give no benefits to an observer with no supernatural perception, though mortals may be more likely than normal to notice a sorcerer's supernatural nature (Storyteller's discre- tion). They likewise do not affect mundane concealment such as camouflage.

Variant Vizier Weaknesses: Despite their protesta- tions to the contrary, the viziers are mad-at least, by the standards of the game system. Every vizier finds himself caught up in the continuance of his chosen pursuits to the exclusion of trivial concems such as daily shelter or nightly nourishment. If the character has a particular area of expertise, he focuses on it to the point of monomania. If he has no such focus for his nightly existence, he fixates on the minute details of routine tasks. In game terms, each vizier has an Obsessive/Compulsive derangement (Vam pire: The Masquerade, p. 222) associated with his highest-rated intellectual or creative Ability. If the character's focus of effort shifts, so does the focus of the derangement. The player should roleplay this change gradually rather than slap it into place at the moment that experience expenditure changes the character's Traits.

CHAPTER TWO: PRAYERS TO BROKEN STONE 47

When this derangement is active, the character's aura flickers with strange whorls and patterns that an observer can interpret to discern the character's Nature and the focus of his obsession. Following a successful use of Aura Perception, the viewer may make an Intelligence + Empa- thy roll (difficulty of the vizier's Humanity or Path rating): two successes give the viewer the focus of the vizier's obsession and four reveal his Nature.

MIND'S EYE THEATRE CASTES

WARRIORS

The warrior caste follows the "default" Assamite profile given in Laws of the Night. The only addition is this: Any application of Aura Perception always reveals diablerie in a warrior's aura, even if the observer fails the challenge.

SORCERERS

The Assamite sorcerers are the same individuals that Laws of the Night calls "viziers." Conceptually, they are the same as in the above material-Mind's Eye Theatre requires no particular adjustments for roleplaying a sor ceret. However, the game mechanics relating to their characteristics change to reflect Mind's Eye Theatre rules:

Advantage: All sorcerers have some degree of famil- iarity with the mysteries of the arcane, even if they themselves do not extensively practice blood magic. Some leam this from their mentors and instructors. Others pick it up through sustained social contact with their contem poraries. Additionally, all sorcerers are somewhat more educated than the human norm, either from mortal academic pursuits or through post-Embrace tutelage. All sorcerer characters begin with two Ability Traits spread between Academics, Linguistics, Medicine, Occult, and

Science.

Disadvantages: Any use of Aura Perception on a sorcerer reveals that he practices blood magic, even if the character has no knowledge of Thaumaturgy or Assamite Sorcery and even if the observer fails the Static Mental Challenge required to read the sorcerer's emotional state.

Alluses of Auspexor other supernatural perception on a sorcerer gain two bonus Traits.

Any observer using supernatural perception to pierce a sorcerer's Obfuscate is considered to have one more level than she actually has for purposes of comparative power levels. For example, a character with Aura Perception attempting to penetrate a sorcerer's Obfuscate treats his Auspex as if he knew The Spirit's Touch when comparing it to the sorcerer's level of Obfuscate mastery.

VIZIERS

As with the sorcerers, the viziers undergo no concep- tual changes when converted to Mind's Eye Theatre. However, their Traits do change to a certain extent:

Advantage: Viziers generally have more contact with mortal society than members of the other castes. A vizier begins with two additional levels to apply to any Back- grounds except Generation or Mentor.

Disadvantages: A vizier character has an Obsessive\! Compulsive derangement that is related to the creative or intellectual Ability in which he has the most Ability Traits. When this derangement is active, it displays itself in subtle patterns in the vizier's aura. An observer who uses Aura Perception on the vizier while this derangement is active may make a Static Mental Challenge against a difficulty of the vizier's permanent Mental Traits. Success lets the observer know what the derangement's focus is The observer must have at least one Ability Trait in

Empathy to attempt this identification. THE GUIDANCE OF THE ELDER

With the exception of a dozen or so dispossessed who sought protection in the Camarilla over the last few centuries, the Assamites do not follow the Traditions as such. This is common knowledge in the Camarilla, which collectively regards the Assamites as lawless renegades due to their disregard for Caine's commandments to his de- scendants. However, it is much less widely known that the Children of Haqim have their own ancient set of codes handed down from their founder. The clan collectively refers to these as the Laws of Haqim.

Translations of these edicts from the original Enochian are surprisingly unvarying. Members of all three castes and

THE LAWS OF HAQIM

THE LAW OF LEADERSHIP

Honor the Eldest among you, for he is to rule my House when I am absent.

THE LAW OF PROTECTION

Ward the mortals from Caine's descendants and treat them with honor in all things.

THE LAW OF DESTRUCTION

Slay not those of the Blood, for that judgement is for the Eldest alone.

THE LAW OF THE WORD

Deceive not those of the Blood, for my House is founded on Truth.

THE LAW OF JUDGEMENT

Judge those of Caine's blood and punish them should they be found wanting.

CLANBOOK: ASSAMITE

48

00

all major clan factions agree on their wording. The doctri- nal split that now divides the clan stems from differences of interpretation of the intent of these laws. On such subtle points are the fates of many decided.

The "original" copies of the Laws of Haqim are a set of five clay tablets engraved in Enochian, the language of the First City. They are one of the most treasured relics of the clan's history. The magi and viziers who tend Alamut's library have used many techniques, magical and mundane alike, to keep them in pristine condition. When ur-Shulgi ordered the silsila to seal Alamut's library and museum, the tablets were removed from their vault and placed in Alamut's great hall at the right hand of the Black Throne.

Every Child of Haqim who claims loyalty to the clan must commit the laws to memory. Only young dispos sessed are wholly unaware of them. Over the centuries, various fashions have sprung up regarding personal repre- sentation of the laws. Many elders who received the Blood around the 15th and 16th centuries still use henna to inscribe the laws on their skin for formal occasions, and an individual with the laws rudely tattooed across his shoul ders was probably Embraced in the mid-1800s (or long. long before then). Shortly before the schism, it became fashionable among neonate Children to wear jewelry with the laws engraved on it, usually an amulet or a set of rings. THE LAW OF LEADERSHIP

The Children of Haqimare an uncommonly hierarchical clan. They recognise that with age comes wisdom, and those who have lived a dozen or more mortal lifetimes are more capable of making informed decisions than those who are still new to the Blood. Most Children interpret this law as an overriding guideline for their clan's hierarchy, with neonates deferring to ancillae and ancillae executing the requests of elders. This principle "tricklesdown" to the lower levels of clan organization. If three Children are in a city, their de facto leader is the eldest among them. At the highest level of organization, this is a mandate for the eldest active fourth- generation Child of Haqim to sit on the throne of Alamut as Eldest, Haqim's regent.

As with the social structure of the Camarilla, this system has the potential for a vast amount of abuse by complacent elders. However, unlike the Camarilla, the Children of Haqim maintain a social structure in which violence is both overt and relatively common. In practice, very few elders who are predisposed toward despotism enjoy long or successful unlives as iron-fisted tyrants. Most successful leaders among the Children know when to delegate authority-and also when to consult younger experts for advice on a particular situation that their unlives have left them ill-equipped to confront personally.

Over the past millennium, the Law of Leadership has been supplemented with an unofficial, but highly ac cepted, tradition of reasonable challenge. The four most

GAPTER TWO: PRAYERS TO BROKEN STONE

49

esteemed positions within the clan (Eldest, Caliph, Amr and Vizier) are not necessarily occupied by the oldest eligible office-holders, but rather by the most proficient and confident candidates. The individuals who hold each of these four positions must accept any formal challenge, so long as it does not come at a time the Eldest determines to be a time of crisis for the Children as a whole. However, the challenged party may choose the method by which the challenge is executed. Each of these positions has a short list of formal options for resolving the challenge and an even shorter list of stiff penalties for the losing party. Many lesser positions, both formal and informal, follow less structured versions of this challenge system.

One point of note is that the Children generally measure a vampire's age by how long he has been a recognized and active member of the clan, not by how many years have passed since he received the Blood. An individual who was Embraced in the 12th century but spent 800 years in torpor or solitude is expected to defer to someone who has been awake and participating in affairs at Alamut since her Embrace in 1872.

THE LAW OF PROTECTION

The warrior caste's progenitors, the judges, came into existence to combat the excesses that other Cainites inflicted upon mortals. Haqim felt strongly enough about this issue to make it one of the defining characteristics of his descendants. Although the Children do not follow the Masquerade as the Camarilla recognizes it, most interpre tations of the Law of Protection agree that "warding the mortals" includes warding them from the knowledge of accursed, undying parasites who prey upon them and encourage the worst excesses of their society.

Although it is not a dogmatic tenet of the Law of Protection, most Children of Haqim extend special regard to those individuals who mirror their respective caste's ideals in mortal society. Few sorcerers or viziers will inflict serious harm on a dedicated mortal scholar if they have another option, and it is the rare member of the warrior caste who will injure a police officer or soldier except in self-defense (or open war).

This law does not prevent the Children from using mortals as a food source, nor does it discourage them from participating in human institutions or governments for their own ends. It simply acts as a brake upon the worst excesses that would otherwise be committed in the name of expediency. Very few Children consider individual mortals to be expendable pawns if those mortals act with some semblance of honor or decorum. When feeding. most members of the clan hold back from draining their vessels to the point of death or hospitalization. In practice, minor violations of this law are quite frequent, though simple peer pressure prevents more obvious or excessive transgressions.

In one of their very few points of agreement, loyalists and schismatics alike despise the antitribu for violating this law nightly.

THE LAW OF DESTRUCTION

Although this law bears some resemblance to the Camarilla's Second Tradition, that resemblance is super- ficial at best. Most Children of Haqim take "Blood" to mean "Haqim's Blood," not "Caine's Blood," and thus this consideration does not extend to other Cainites except as a matter of practicality among the schismatics, many of whom now dwell among other Cainites. Haqim, it is believed, had no particular desire to clean up the messes that widespread fratricide tends to leave behind.

The Law of Destruction forbids wanton killing of clanmates. It says nothing, however, about injuring or maiming them: "Slay not" doesn't equal "harm not." Warriors often fight duels, and it's not uncommon for viziers and magi to do so as well. Such duels are usually semiformal affairs with a neutral arbiter. Terms can range from "to torpor" to "to the first cut," and the matters they settle can be as trivial as possession of a valued automobile or as significant as the authority to levy assignments across an entire continent. Slips and accidents are not uncom mon, though the deceased's friends and superiors usually investigate them thoroughly. Likewise, nonfatal punish- ments for transgressions against the Path of Blood or Laws of Haqim may be intended to mark the accused as a reminder of his failure. Ritual brands with ash rubbed into the wound, salt or stone dust pressed into the flesh after scarification-such things are commonplace and exact their burden forever after.

The Law of Destruction ties into the Law of Leader- ship in that it allows "the Eldest" the right to kill any Child of Haqim under her supervision. Under the most common interpretation of the Law of Leadership, the accepted "eldest" Child in a given group has the right to slay any subordinate. However, excessive exercise of this right sometimes leads to fatal retribution. Generally, an ancilla or elder who feels the need to remove a subordinate from the world requests permission from a higher authority, typically her caste leader or one of that leader's direct lieutenants.

Occasionally, two Children of Haqim come to hate each other to the point that each can be satisfied only by the Final Death of the other. In most such situations, the Children recognize two options. The first is an unsanctioned duel to the death, which usually results in the destruction of the survivor at the hands of the first elder to find out what happened. The second is for both disputants to gather their belongings, walk away from each other for one lunar month (or travel an appropriate distance in the modem era) and make every possible attempt to avoid one another's presence for the next century. The latter solu tion is generally regarded as more honorable and less

CLANBOOK: ASSAMITE

F

50

wasteful of clan resources. A few Assamites believe that the duel between al-Ashrad and ur-Shulgi ended in such an arrangement, with the Schism resulting from a final attempt to avoid a full-scale civil war in the clan.

With the Schism, both primary factions have for mally stated that their claim to the Blood places their opposite numbers outside the aegis of the Law of Destruc tion. Fatal conflicts between loyalists and schismatics may eventually become more the rule than the exception, though nonlethal sparring and "tagging" still dominate for the moment. Within both factions, the penalty for delib erately killing a fellow Child of Haqim from the same faction is Final Death by beheading unless the offender can prove extenuating circumstances.

THE LAW OF THE WORD

As in the case of the Law of Destruction, "of the Blood" generally means "of Haqim's Blood" as far as the Children's interpretation of this law is conccmed. Treatment of non- Children is subject to the individual Child's whim and the practicality of lying or stealing in any given situation.

As a matter of practicality, absolute honesty is as difficult to provide as it is to enforce. "Little white lies" and passing gossip are usually overlooked, unless their conse- quences snowball later. Amalicious or damagingdeception, such as slander, receives a punishment that is as old as the clan itself: The guilty party is restrained by four of his peers while a supervising elder carves his tongue out of his mouth. Theft receives a similar penalty-the attending elder wraps a horsehair rope around the thief's wrist and other Children pull on the other end of the rope until the thief's hand (or arm) separates from his body. In both cases, the elder then smears the resulting raw wound with alchemical paste or salt that prevents regeneration for the next lunar month. The Children of Haqim have few repeat offenders.

Except in matters where secrecy is required for the good of the clan or caste, Children of Haqim do not often lie to one another. The clan commonly believes that Haqim considered theft "a lie of possession," so Children typically do not steal from one another either. As with the Law of Destruction, these restrictions loosen considerably when a Child from one faction is dealing with a member of the opposition.

Many members of the warrior and magus castes hold the breaking of a clan-mandated deception to be akin to a lie. This specifically includes those individuals who reveal too many secrets of the Children to outsiders. Polite, casual conversation on points of theology is usually acceptable. Giving away the address of the local safehouse is not. Truly catastrophic breaches of silence usually result in a bloodbath as every Child in the region joins in the effort to silence the wagging tongue and all who heard it.

CHAPTER TWO: PRAYERS TO BROKEN STONE 51

THE LAW OF JUDGEMENT

The last and most important of the Laws of Haqim is the one whose interpretation has shattered the clan in the Final Nights. Although other factors do exist, the heart of the split between the loyalists and the schismatics is the responsibility for evaluating and punishing the Kindred that Haqim assigned to his judges so long ago.

Ur-Shulgi's interpretation of the Law of Judgement. which members of the loyalist faction share to one degree or another, is that all other vampires (and many of Haqim's Children) have failed to live up to the standards of honor and integrity put forth by Haqim in the nights of the First City. The Kindred have become a blight upon the mortal world, and thus they unilaterally violate the Law of Protection. Like a cancerous tumor, they have become too deeply entrenched to be treated with noninvasive half- measures. They must be cut out of the body upon which they feed. Momentary alliances with useful individuals or groups may be possible, but ultimately only those few truly penitent Cainites who adopt the Path of Blood and tum on their former peers should be allowed to survive.

The schismatic argument against this interpretation is that Haqim never intended his Children to be an external control mechanism for Cainite affairs, nor did he see them as innately superior to other Kindred. The judges existed inside the First City's society, and they were as subject to their own laws as any other vampire of the time. In order to properly administer justice, a sense of perspec- tive is necessary. This, argue al-Ashrad's supporters, means moderation, and it requires an ability to "work within the system" in order to curb the worst excesses. The "system" that is best suited to such a purpose is the Camarilla. By its own admission, the Sabbat holds itself above mortals in such a manner as to spit on the Law of Protection. While not all schismatics use this argument as their justification for rejecting Alamut's rule, most members of the faction at least pay it lip service.

INTERNAL DIVIDING LINES

As with all of Caine's progeny, the Assamites have a number of ideological demarcations within their ranks. Some are political in nature, arising either from the fundamental difference of belief that ur-Shulgi's awaken ing brought to boil or from even older conflicts. Others are the result of certain Assamites' membership in the various secret and open societies within the clan that have en- dured to the modem nights.

FACTIONS

Prior to ur-Shulgi's awakening, the primary political divisions among the Assamites broke down by their

members' views on the clan's relations with other Cainites. This is still true to a certain extent: As might be expected, "Kindred" still reside at Alamut. However, the divisions few Assanites who favor peaceful relations with Camarilla

are now more pronounced, and the two new halves of what was once a somewhat unified clan are engaged in a shadow war whose consequences may stretch far beyond a few Final Deaths.

LOYALISTS

The loyalist faction is that which is most similar to the general Kindred world's view of the Assamite clan as a whole. The loyalists hold themselves to be superior to all other vampires-they believe they are the next step on the food chain, as far above Cainites as Cainites are above mortals. Not all loyalists follow the Path of Blood, but most of them are familiar with its teachings and honor them to one degree or another, as a code of behavior if not morality.

Loyalist doctrine holds that ur-Shulgi, the Assamite Methuselah who awoke at the end of the 20th century, is Haqim's herald. According to ur-Shulgi, Haqim is the only true authority that any Child of Haqim should recognize. The Ancestor's peers once charged him with bringing order to the Second City, but their petty bicker- ing (and that of their descendants) proved them incapable of maintaining the honor necessary to uphold their part of that bargain. Thus, the destruction that the Children of Haqim visit upon the Cainites is nothing more than the justice that they themselves once requested. They are a blight upon the world, as the unrest and suffering they cause across the globe proves nightly.

Among the loyalists, diablerie serves a dual purpose. First, it allows the diablerist to absorb the power of the Blood from those who are unworthy to bear it. This both removes a potential threat to the Children of Seth and strengthens the diablerist for future struggles against the Cainites. Second, it grants a final rest to the soul of the unworthy one, which no doubt rebels against its accursed condition even if its owner's mind refuses to consciously acknowledge this truth. Although most Cainites view diablerie as a violent, murderous act, loyalists believe that it is one of the foremost services they can perform to honor their Ancestor.

Most loyalists fall along traditional lines of clan organization. The center of their hierarchy is Alamut, the mountain stronghold that has been the clan's physical heart since the fall of the Second City. They acknowledge Haqim as their actual leader, though ur-Shulgi serves as Eldest and regent of Alamut until the return of the Ancestor (which the loyalists believe is imminent). The loyalists have no current Caliph, though several candi- dates are jockeying for position. A series of challenges for the position seems inevitable. The Amr is Amaravati, al- Ashrad's childe and chosen successor. The faction acknowledges no loyalist Vizier and probably never will,

CLANBOOK: ASSAMITE

52

as vizier backing of the schismatic movement was too widespread for ur-Shulgi to trust the few members of the caste who remain aligned with him.

Playing Loyalist Characters

Loyalist Assamites are created as per the usual rules found in Vampire: The Masquerade. However, they are true independents. No loyalist may hold office or Status in the Camarilla or the Sabbat without benefit of an exten- sive cover identity (which is usually beyond the capacity of a starting character).

While all loyalists believe that the Children of Haqim are superior to other Cainites, most of them don't act that way every night. One cannot tell a loyalist from a schis matic with a simple glance-members of the factions do not wear sashes or sigils to proclaim their sympathies. Wise loyalists exploit this in order to sow discord among other Kindred, the better to undermine the schismatics' at tempts at credibility and acceptance. Even if it doesn't necessarily harm the schismatics, a loyalist may pretend to be something other than what he is in order to further his own goals. Of course, a loyalist's player should be prepared for his character to experience a potentially fatal backlash if the disguised Assamite is ever unmasked by the Cainites who have come to trust him.

SCHISMATICS

The first public appearances of the schismatics in early 2000 threatened to shatter the Kindred world's long- held assumptions about the Children of Haqim. Although few would be so foolish as to call the schismatics "the good Assamites," they are the members of the clan who are generally the most capable of coexisting nonviolently with those Cainites who follow the Traditions. Many schismatics retain their mortal values and moralities, though a significant minority of Path of Blood adherents exist within their ranks. These latter individuals generally follow the Path's tenets of honor and justice over those that promote systematic destruction of all other vampires.

The core doctrinal argument that led the schismatic leaders to split from the main body of the clan has to do with Haqim's Law of Judgement and ur-Shulgi's interpre- tation of it. Most schismatics believe in moderation when interpreting the Law of Judgement. Widespread destruc- tion of all non-Assamite Cainites is tantamount to genocide, and judging all other vampires on the basis of the actions of a visible minority-or even a majority of them is anything but just. Most schismatics have a strong sense of irony, recognizing that the very prejudice they condemn in their own clan is levied against them by most of the rest of the Kindred world.

A large portion of schismatics have no particular leaning toward one or another interpretation of the Law of Judgement. Rather, their quarrel with Alamut is a matter of faith. When ur-Shulgi ascended to the Black Throne, one of his first dictates was the immediate cessa-

tion of all worship save that of Haqim. While the Muslim majority of the clan may have tolerated a simple order of silence for years or even decades, ur-Shulgi followed up his initial proclamation by summarily destroying several widely respected elders who refused to renounce Allah. The Leopards of Zion were the first Children of Haqim to challenge ur-Shulgi in defense of their faith, they were far from the last. Practitioners of every major world religion and no few minor ones followed al-Ashrad into exile, turning their backs on their clan rather than on their respective gods.

As tentative allies (and, according to some reports, prospective members) of the Camarilla, all schismatics publicly refrain from diablerie. This is particularly difficult for warrior-caste schismatics, as their hunger for vitae did not die with their shift of allegiance. Whenever possible, schismatic warriors exist under the direct supervision of a sorcerer or vizier who monitors them for signs of slipping self-control. Most Camarilla princes are aware of the warriors' addiction, thanks to al-Ashrad's revelations dur ing his bid for Camarilla hospitality, and grant their warrior citizens whatever they consider appropriate con- cessions. Most such concessions are "privileges" like "warrior Assamites are excluded from mandatory atten dance at any Elysium where attendance is otherwise required for the Kindred." No sensible vampire wants a potential cannibal too close, and so the once-proud war- riors have been largely reduced to little more than the lackeys and dependents of the other castes. For the most part, schismatic warriors tolerate the restrictions on their behavior with remarkable good will-they knew what they were stepping into, and they left Alamut because they believed in something (even if that "something" was only self-preservation) strongly enough to accept the social stigma of being "refugees" or second-class Cainites.

The schismatics currently maintain a loose organiza- tional structure that mimics, but does not fully conform to, the clan's pre-Schism order. Al-Ashrad serves a dual role as Amr and Eldest. Tegyrius, the pre-Schism Vizier, still holds that position. The schismatic faction has no Caliph, as the Camarilla would see the establishment of a formal organizational structure for the schismatic warriors as too much of a threat. In most Camarilla cities, the eldest sorcerer or vizier is the de facto leader of all local schismat ics and must typically report his "subjects" activities to the prince on a regular basis.

Playing Schismatic Characters

The Masquerade's normal nules. Unlike the "default" Assamites As with loyalists, schismatics are created as per Vampire: presented in that book, however, schismatics may be at least nominally members of the Camarilla, depending on the pref- erences of the players and the Storyteller. However, they're founding clans are, and it's rather difficult for them to accrue nowhere near as widely accepted as members of the seven large amounts of Status or hold office. No Kindred has heard any

CHAPTER TWO: PRAYERS TO BROKEN STONE 53

reports of Assamite princes, though the seneschal of Phoenix is a vizier and Paris and Athens have a sorcerer and a vizier, respectively, among their primogen. These are exceptions rather than rules. Most schismatics fortunate enough to have claimed Camarilla titles this quickly are sheriffs or scourges.

Many schismatics still privately believe that they're superior to all other vampires. Old lessons die hard, after all. But those who are unwise enough to be vocal about their beliefs are usually on the receiving end of a very pointed lesson from their "Kindred."Most members of the faction know what a good thing they have going with the Camarilla don't want their less-diplomatic peers to jeop ardize that. If they want to be accepted as full sect members some night, their best option for the present is to keep their

mouths shut.

ASSAMITE ANTITRIBU

The faction of the clan known as the Assamite antitribu began its existence as a group of desperare survi vors fighting to salvage their clan's honor in the face of what they saw as an unconscionable submission to an inferior opponent. When the ragged handful of warriors joined the nascent Sabbat, they had little to offer the sect but their blades.

In the aftermath of the Anarch Revolt, that was enough.

Over the centuries, the Assamite antimribu grew into the backbone of the Black Hand, the Sabbat's elite military arm. This power did not come without a price, however. In their desperate pursuit of a new role in unlife, the antimribu gradually grew away from their warrior-caste roots. By the end of the 18th century, few Assamite antitribu neonates were aware of more than the haziest basics of their clan's history. Many had no idea of the existence of separate "castes" of Assamites. This was partially due to the Sabbat's emphasis on allegiance to the sect over misplaced loyalty to the clan but mostly stemmed from the faction elders' collective desire to distance their broods from the "disgraced" main body of the Assamites.

By late 1998, the Assamite antitribu made up the majority of the Black Hand's leadership and comprised far more of the Hand's total membership than any other single clan or bloodline. The Sabbat overpowered close to one Camarilla-dominated city a month in a blitzkrieg campaign along the American East Coast, and the Hand -and, consequently, the Assamite antitribu- were spearheading the most successful and profitable series of assaults in the sect's history.

Then ur-Shulgi completed the Breaking. Over a single night, the symbol of the Assamites' submission to the Camarilla was shattered by blood magic that was ancient centuries before the curse's casters were born. For the Assamite antitribu neonates, this was a frightening sign that the Antediluvians were close to awakening. For the faction's elders, however, it was an invitation to return to

the fold. Whatever the Sabbat thought, the faction's leadership had always considered its sectarian allegiance one of convenience-the Sabbat was a useful means of striking at the Camarilla, and it provided formidable protection from other enemies that the antitribu had made at the time of their split from the main body of the clan. Over the course of two weeks, the majority of the Black Hand's leadership simply disappeared.

The result was a crippling blow to the Sabbat's campaign against the American Camarilla. With the loss of much of their strategic and tactical guidance, Black Hand cells and their supporting packs foundered and stalled. Young members of the antitribu attempted to take up the slack, but met with mixed results due to their relative inexperience within the Hand and the sect. By early 1999, it was clear that the Assamite antitribu were no longer the heart and mind of the Black Hand, though they still made up a good portion of its ranks. Several of the upper echelons of the Hand were quickly filled by ambi tious Trimisce, along with Gangrel, Ventrue and Salubri antitribu and other militaristic Sabbat firebrands eager to prove their long-denied worth.

Within a year, the Assamite antitribu's ranks swelled again-not from "war draft" Embraces but rather from an influx of refugees. For the first time since the faction's inception, Assamites were defecting from Alamut en masse. Their motivation now, however, was not an escape from disgrace, but rather a flight from what one early arrival termed "the walking atrocity that sits on the Black Throne and claims to speak with Haqim's voice."

Tonight, the Assamite antitribu are far from their previous prominence. Their elders within the Sabbat have all vanished but for a select few, and many of their most promising lieutenants perished in the chaos that followed the elders' abandonment of the sect. They are by no means broken, however. The refugees from Alamut are very much a mixed bag, but they all share two common traits: They found ur-Shulgi's presence too terrifying to endure, and they found the Camarilla too much of a stifling alternative to consider. In addition, their numbers include several members of the sorcerer caste and, some rumors say, a handful of viziers. These new arrivals are the first nonwarriors to claim Assamite antitribu membership since the faction's escape from the curse-and they have galvanized their brethren into action. What the faction now lacks in upper-echelon leadership, it makes up for with numbers and a renewed dedication to the destruction of the Antediluvians and their servants.

Playing Assamite Antitribu Characters

In many ways, the Assamite antitribu are closer to the general stereotype of the Assamites than any other faction of the clan. Until the past year, they were exclusively warriors by caste. While some Assamite antitribu who were

CLANBOOK: ASSAMITE

54

not combat specialists did become True Sabbat, such as the secure couriers who keep the Mexican and Canadian Sabbat connected, no sorcerers or viziers were among their numbers. Many subscribed to the Path of Caine, which set them in direct opposition to the more "humane" elements of the Camarilla-not to mention the main body of their own clan. The antimbu kept to themselves, maintained a high average level of combat prowess and generally re: garded outsiders as potential meals (with the exception of their fellow Sabbat members). Under the leadership of the hull and his shakari advisors, they claimed to be maintain- ing the only pure line of the Assamite clan.

When the shakari and their contemporaries parted with the Sabbat, their actions eviscerated the Assamite antitribu's claims of purity and jeopardized the survival of the descendants they left behind. The only thing that saved the vast majority of Assamite antitribu loyal to the Sword of Caine from a merciless purge was a rapid inves tigation spearheaded by Jalan-Aajav himself that cleared those who remained of any complicity in the departure of their leaders. In his report to an assembly of archbishops and Black Hand leaders, the Seraph pointed out a clear line of demarcation between the loyalists and the deserters within the antitribu. With only a handful of exceptions, none of those who left was Embraced after the Sabbat's

first century of existence. The Vaulderie ensured the loyalty of most later inductees which makes many Sabbat question just what the original Assamite antitribu did to escape their bonds.

The Assamite antitribu are still a major component of the Sabbat's paramilitary arm, though their role is somewhat diminished in the Final Nights. The faction as a whole is disorganized and demoralized, though

several charismatic young leaders are taking steps to forge scattered elements into a cohesive whole once again. Most Assamite antitribu in the modern nights are young (under a century of age), competent (else they

would not have survived the initial wave of uncoordi nated reprisals) and highly motivated. The Sabbat would do well to not count them out of the running to regain leadership of the Black Hand.

A few all-Assamite antitribu packs still claim member- ship in the Sabbat, mostly those that existed prior to the elders' departure. New arrivals from Alamut are usually inducted into existing cosmopolitan packs, the better to keep an eye on the new recruits until the Sabbat can determine their true motives. Most arriving warriors at tempt to gain positions in the Black Hand or as templars. Vizier defectors have established cabals or loose packs in Sabbat-dominated cities in Central America, though at least three are suspected to have taken up residence in Montreal. Any sorcerers who have joined the Sabbat are

keeping low profiles, possibly in the company of Trimisce koldun with whom they can exchange information and share facilities.

THE DISPOSSESSED

More a catchall category than a rigidly defined fac- tion, the dispossessed are traditionally Assamites who The first recorded use of the term dates to the eighth choose their own paths over the clan's internal hierarchy. century BC, when the warrior caste's historian, Thucimia, wrote of her rebellious childe as "a wanton and wild thing. heeding no authority save that of the spear, dispossessed by his own hands and lips of the safety of Alamut's hearth and the comradeship of Haqim's Children. "In the early Middle

Ages, dispossessed warriors seeking mercenary employ tales that cast the Assamites as hired killers. Several ment in the Cainite courts of Europe gave birth to the first

centuries later, a group of honor-conscious individuals briefly earned the label of "dispossessed" before establish- ing themselves as the Assamite antitribu. Assamites who claimed Inconnu membership were always considered dispossessed, as were those rare few who gave the Camarilla ence with the Cathayans. their loyalty or fled east to attempt alliance and coexist-

The greatest numbers of dispossessed existed during the Long Night. In this era, perhaps as many as one in three Assamites was dispossessed, though the clan has never kept exact records of the number of newly Embraced members who turned their backs on Haqim's legacy. This population boom could not last, however, and the nascent the dispossessed. Many nonaligned Assamites met Final Camarilla's crusade against the Assamites fell heavily on Death prior to the Treaty of Tyre for no reason other than their heritage. Dispossessed elders were favored targets of Assamite-hunting coteries by virtue of their unnaturally than a few score dispossessed remained in existence across dark skin. By the time the treaty was signed in 1496, less Europe and North Africa. The rest had either perished,

renounced their iconoclasm and rejoined Alamut, en- tered torpor or sought sanctuary with the Inconnu.

Owing to recent events, the dispossessed may now make up a portion of the clan close to that of a millennium ago. Although many members of all three castes fled Camarilla, roughly as many chose to follow no leader Alamut for the relative security and stability of the

rather than submitting to a power structure that they had known as the enemy since receiving the Blood. Alamut lying somewhere off the scale, and many Assamites feel and the Camarilla are two polar extremes, with the Sabbat that none of these options are acceptable. Both faction heads are scrambling to bring these diverse individuals back to the fold as are the various leaders of the Assamite antitribu

CHAPTER TWO: PRAYERS TO BROKEN STONE 55

Playing Dispossessed Characters

In general, a dispossessed character is the best option for a player wanting to portray an Assamite who does not conform to any of the clan's various hierar chies or claim any factional loyalty. Dispossessed come from all three castes and may have rejected clan author- ity for any number of reasons, including distrust, paranoia, the threat of a personal enemy, lack of suffi- cient instruction from their sires in the "clan culture," disgust with Assamite politics or just a stubborn streak of independence. Likewise, dispossessed tend to ally themselves with whatever pack, coterie or individual seems to provide the best opportunity for personal gain -or simply for personal safety.

05

For purposes of the views of the organized Assamite factions, Assamites who become anarchs or who join the Inconnu or other elder-exclusive organizations and con- spiracies are dispossessed. As stated earlier, "dispossessed" is more of an "everything else" category than a given set of clan members.

ORDERS AND ORGANIZATIONS

Although the Assamites have never been as unified as some would claim, the center of authority that is Alamut has always provided the basis for a strong clan structure. This allows a degree of interaction on many levels that is much more difficult to achieve in any group without central leadership. In turn, the very existence of a clan structure has led to social polarization along many lines: political, racial, religious, professional and more. In the Assamite clan, secret societies and open organizations have always flourished.

Cynical observers note that, in addition to the clan structure that makes such clustering possible, many vam pires share a common need to feel special or superior by belonging to some body that excludes others. Inaclan that has traditionally stood alone, simple descent from Haqim is not always enough.

Whatever the reason, the Assamites have always had their share of internal groups that range from the deadly to the purely social. The following are some of the most prominent, noteworthy, active or visible.

THE SISTERHOOD OF THE ERINYES

The Sisterhood has existed in some form or another since the nights of ancient Greece, when a foolhardy vizier

gave the Blood to a trio of sisters who were rumored to have powers of prophecy. This overzealous individual, whose name is lost to history, should have done more thorough research. The sisters had some small prophetic skills among them, but they were priestesses of Bacchus-and their divinations gave best results when performed with the entrails of a still-warm subject. The sisters merrily used

their sire's withered innards to come to a better under- standing of their new condition, then continued in their accustomed roles for another two centuries until an itin- erant sorcerer encountered them and gave them a more thorough explanation of Haqim's history.

After a brief consultation over the ashes of another Cainite sacrifice, the three agreed to accompany the sorcerer to Alamut and learn the ways of the clan. During their journey, the sisters came to know the clan's origins. They understood the value of history and heritage, and they faced something of a dilemma: Which of Haqim's legacies should they follow, that of the scholar or that of the judge? The eldest favored study. The youngest, the pursuit of the guilty. The deadlock was broken by the middle sister, who suggested that perhaps another divina- tion was in order. Rather than go the way of the sisters' sire, their guide quickly agreed and stated that, as he was more familiar with the ways of the clan. perhaps he should perform the divination. His readings of the stars suggested that the sisters would be best suited to judgement, and all three accepted this as the gods' will.

When the sisters finally arrived at Alamut, the clan was in one of its periods of male dominance. Rather than being welcomed as long-lost fellows finally brought back to the fold, they were ostracized and ridiculed for presum- ing to be the equals of the clan's male members. The three patiently swallowed their pride and sought out the com- pany and support of other daughters of Haqim who were equally piqued by the clan's collective mindset. Taking the Greek gods' own judges as their example, this first loose band declared their intent to hold truer to Haqim's ideals of justice than any other Assamites could. They made no specific statement of gender exclusivity, but the implication was clear enough.

Over the centuries, the ranks of the Sisterhood of the Erinyes have waxed and waned in number depending on the clan's current attitude toward its female members. The Sisterhood is a strictly informal group, more of an ac- knowledged social clique than a formal society. Those who wish to make some sort of declaration of Sisterhood wear a pin or other emblem depicting the traditional blindfolded female representation of justice. This is roughly akin to wearing an ethnic pride emblem; it confers no

a clue to the wearer's sympathies. special privileges, simply giving knowledgeable observers

Laws, particularly the Law of Judgement, and to maintain a Most female Assamites who strive to uphold Haqim's roughly human moral compass are acknowledged as Sisters. This latter qualification means that Sisters tend to take moderate views on relations with other Cainites, and that no Sister follows a Path of Enlightenment other than Humanity. of weakness do so at their own peril. Most female Assamites of However, those who assume that this is indicative of some sort

CLANBOOK: ASSAMITE

56

warrior alignment have had some level of dealings with the Sisterhood, thanks to that caste's most recent surge of pro-male, pro-Islam sentiment. With the clan's current crisis, the Sisterhood is split between supporters of al-Ashrad and dispossessed. Very few, if any, Sisters believe that ur-Shulgi upholds Haqim's highest ideals.

Playing Sisterhood of the Erinyes Characters

As noted above, the Sisterhood of the Erinyes is purely a social circle. with no formal rules except those that various ambitious neonates try to codify every few decades before learning the folly of such imposition. The only requirements for Sisterhood (and even these are understood rather than explicitly stated) are that the prospective Sister be a female vampire or ghoul and that she take Haqim's Laws as her guide in unlife, with the Law of Judgement as the most important of the five. Sisterhood is theoretically not restricted to Assamites, though acceptance of Haqim's Laws is not exactly wide- spread outside the clan.

Sisters tend to have high personal standards of honor, and they usually hold others to equally stringent require- ments. Interpretation of "judgement" varies across the Sisterhood, ranging from the righteous to the malevolently gleeful. At least one Sister is known to enforce her personal ethics through character assassination, seducing her targets and then publicly humiliating them at important socialevents. Others may provide painful but nonfatal "object lessons" or simply document an offender's actions for the local Cainite authorities. At least four Sisters have taken positions as sheriffs and scourges in Camarilla cities over the group's millennia-long

existence.

Most Sisters claim schismatic allegiance or dispossessed status, though a few believe that ur-Shulgi has Haqim's best interests in mind and thus remain loyal to Alamut. Many have a level or two in Mentor or Allies, as Sisters tend to watch out for one another. Most have relatively high Humanity and Conscience ratings (a Humanity Trait of 6 or higher and Conscience of 3 or higher, respectively). They can be from any caste, and the potential for non-Assamite Sisters is slowly appearing as the schismatics interact with Camarilla society.

THE WEB OF KNIVES

Until the beginning of the Crusades, the warrior caste maintained a tradition of Embracing progeny and then allow- ing them to survive or die on their own merits. In 1102, a small band of warrior-caste assassins challenged this custom by establishing a training center in the Byzantine Empire. These individuals recruited the most promising mortal assassins they could find, imparting to them accumulated centuries of knowledge and training. When the Eldest questioned their behavior, they stated, "We are giving birth to the new breed of Haqim's childer." Over the next century, this group came to be known as the Web of Knives, and the graduates of its training program took their place among the elite of the warrior caste. The Web still exists in the modem nights. Its members are some of the most devout adherents to the Path of Blood, and they are all staunch loyalists. Its mission is simple: to create the most lethal individuals in Kindred society so that they may serve as Haqim's right

CHAPTER TWO: PRAYERS TO BROKEN STONE

57

hand when he returns to lead his lineage in a final war against Caine's tainted descendants.

The Web maintains a startling combination of se crecy and open advertising. The locations of its training facilities and members' havens are nigh impossible to uncover, as are the "safe" identities of its members. How- ever, most of the active assassins of the Web have one or more "field" identities through which they deal with the rest of the Cainite world. The Web never acknowledges its existence outside Assamite ranks. In fact, the name is only known to a few Camarilla and Inconnu intelligence gatherers, most of whom believe it to be a mortal terrorist organization that the Assamites support. However, the Web's reputation is such that the activities and origins of its members are generally perceived as those of the entire clan, though this stereotype is shifting in the Final Nights. The phrase "Web of Knives" is largely unknown, but its individual members' deeds tend to attain an infamy out of proportion to their actual significance, and these accom- plishments are the most visible contributions of any Assamite to the Cainite world as a whole.

Each member of the Web is recruited because of his martial skills, whether these lie in personal combat or in tactical command. His prospective sire gives himachoice: Join the world's foremost organization of assassins or walk away. If he chooses the latter option, his regretful contact summarily executes him and disposes of the body. If he chooses to join, his recruiter makes him a ghoul and personally delivers him to one of the Web's facilities, where he spends the next seven years in constant training The recruit's master visits him once a month to deliver another dose of vitae, but his night-to-night development rests in the hands of the Web's permanent instructors and their ghoul assistants.

Supervised training lasts from sunset to dawn, seven nights a week. Another two to eight hours of each day are given over to physical conditioning or indepen- dent academic study. The instruction consists not only of physical training in personal combat but also in- cludes investigative techniques, social deception, and, most importantly, an array of propaganda and brain- washing designed to convince the trainee of the Assamites' innate superiority to all other vampires. The pressure is constant. Recruits take no holidays during Web training. No time off, no coffee breaks. Only an individual who has the discipline to maintain this exhausting regimen and the long-term vision nec- essary to understand its transitory nature has even the slightest chance of success. Washout rates in this seven- year period are obviously quite high. The instructors tolerate any given mistake exactly once. A repetition of the same failure leads to death.

After this seven-year apprenticeship, the student receives one last task: a final field test. He receives a photograph, a name and a hemisphere of the world where this individual may be found. He must identify, locate and kill this target within one month, then return to his training facility-a place from which he has not traveled more than 20 miles in the last seven years. Targets vary: Some are mortals, some are Cainites, and a few have been other supernatural beings of varying types. If the assassin succeeds, his sire Embraces him in a solemn, elaborate ceremony, and he enters the next seven years of his training. If he fails but survives his failed attempt, he is considered dispossessed. No Web of Knives member will ever acknowledge his existence again (with one excep tion; see below) unless he interferes with Web business.

The second seven years of training are more difficult but more lenient. The transition from ghoul to vampire is more severe than the transition from mortal to ghoul. In addition, most Web trainees do not receive indoctrina- tion in the tenets of the Path of Blood until after their Embraces, so the neonates face the additional problem of a complete moral and religious readjustment. Finally, the trainee is in the "real world" again, now under the direct supervision of his sire, acting as an aide and accomplice in missions of assassination for high-paying Cainite clients or to further the goals of Alamut. At the end of these seven years, the student undergoes a month- long examination ranging from philosophical debate to trials by combat. If he passes, his ceremony of induction into the Web as a full member includes the destruction by diablerie of an Assamite who failed to uphold the Web's vision of the clan's ideals-often one of the dispossessed who failed.

The Web has a consistently small membership, pri- marily due to attrition but also thanks to its rigorous selection criteria. At any given time, less than 20 full- fledged members are presumed to populate its ranks. Half of these are active in the world, while the other half maintain the Web's three training facilities in Afghani stan, Nigeria and Colombia. Under their supervision are several dozen ghoul candidates in varying stages of train- ing and an equal number of elder ghoul instructors. Members are overwhelmingly male, mainly due to tradi- tional chauvinism. Physical requirements such as raw strength are easier to meet when one is a ghoul. Until the last century, all Web members were of Arab or African extraction, but a handful of Europeans and Asians have completed the training since the first one did so in 1869.

The Web operates on a seven-year cycle, with active members rotating between training duty and field work on a seven on/seven off schedule that begins with a field cycle upon "graduation." The organization is small enough that it has no formal internal rank structure among its active members, though informal respect is awarded on the basis

CLANBOOR: ASSAMITE

58

which leads some to question who their allies may be. They are largely confined to Israel and the surrounding territories, but some known Leopards have been seen in Camarilla cities in Europe in recent months.

Playing a Leopard of Zion Character

The Leopards of Zion consider any Cainite who is of the Jewish faith and displays both willingness and ability to defend the Jewish people from outside supernatural threats to be one of their number, at least provisionally. However, one must gain acceptance from the group and, ultimately, from Amaris herself in order to be a full-fledged Leopard. This acceptance usually comes only after the prospective Leopard has risked his unlife (or, on occasion,

his soul) in support of the Jewish faith, the nation of Israel, or the Middle East peace process.

The Leopards donot explicitly exclude non-Assamites from their ranks indeed, one of their most respected members is a Ventrue elder who has made his haven in Gaza for 300 years. However, virtually all prospects who are not Children of Haqim are met with a high initial degree of suspicion. The Leopards follow a "cell" organi- rational structure, with Amaris bat Ariela heading the organization from her haven in Tel Aviv. Most are skilled in personal combat, as Amaris prefers to rely on ghouls and mortal contacts to provide noncombat support for her various schemes. Many of these agents are the former servants of those Cainites the Leopards destroyed in 1967, who willingly accepted the blood bond in exchange for

continued sustenance.

THE THOUSAND-METER CLUB

More an informal acknowledgement of skill than a formal brotherhood, the Thousand-Meter Club began as an inside joke among Americans and Europeans who were Embraced into the warrior caste during and after the Second World War. Apocryphally, the founder of the Thousand-Meter Club was a Marine sharpshooter from West Virginia who took offense to several Arab Assamites' slurs against his race and his choice of armament. He goaded one of his tormentors into issu ing a challenge, then specified that the duel would be a hunt to take place over a hundred square miles of the Zagros Mountains. The sharpshooter set an ambush for his pursuer, then shot the overconfident traditionalist through the throat from a thousand meters away, effec- tively decapitating him.

Since that incident, any Assamite who kills an- other Cainite at a range of thousand meters or more is said to have "joined the Thousand-Meter Club." The subject of what constitutes a "legal kill" is under con- stant debate, as most Assamite riflemen do not consider the use of blood magic or Discipline powers a legitimate bid for membership.

Playing a Member of the Thousand-Meter Club As there are no formal membership requirements save for one accomplishment, almost any character whose history and Traits allow for the possibility may be said to be in the Thousand-Meter Club. If such an individual entered through the "traditional" route (using a rifle), she almost certainly has Dexterity, Perception and Firearms Traits each of 4 or better. Storytellers are advised to take the realities of physics into account when considering more outlandish claims-no realistic amount of Potence will allow a character to kill another vampire with a thrown rock from 3,300 feet.

FOREIGN RELATIONS

At first glance, it would appear that the Assamites are radically divided on their views of other Cainites. How- ever, even the recent Schism cannot erase centuries of

conditioned responses. The primary differences between the loyalists' opinions and those of the schismatics lie in degrees of outspokenness and willingness to change. THE CAMARILLA

You'd think we should hate the Camarilla-and many of us do, if the truth be known. Just ask any of ur-Shulgi's laughing boys. But you have to remember that the Camarilla is the one power outside our clan that has proven it can defeat us. That's indisputable proof that an alliance is stronger than a single force that stands alone, no matter how unified that force may be internally. For many of us, that sort of strength demands respectand beckons us to join with it, especially considering conditions on the Mountain. Final Nights or no, there's a war coming, and I want to be on the winning side.

On the other hand, that sort of strength also demands a certain degree of attention, because it remains a threat. I can see where the loyalists are standing, and it makes a good deal of sense. If something has proven itself to be a threat once, beat you senseless and then backed off, you'd be hard- pressed to just let it be when you felt you had the advantage. wouldn't you?

\-Kasim Bayar, sheriff of Milan, schismatic warrior BRUJAH

If they understood how to buck up and keep it in their pants, they might be a more credible threat. When they're not fighting, they're whining. When they're not whining, they're looking for a fight. They remind me of a bunch of Irishmen, actually. Still, it's best to let someone else oblige them-or shoot them in the head from a distance. Some of them can throw down as well as we do, and it's all over if one gets his hands on you. The elders are the most dangerous, as they like to pretend they're calm and rational scholars, but their fuses are cut just as short.

CLANBOOK: ASSAMITE

\-Evan Rogers, freelance bodyguard, dispossessed warrior

60

MALHAVIANS

Although we are encouraged to extend charity and compassion to the mad, those of Malkav's brood would strain even a more tolerant heart than mine. They are capricious, unsettling and capable of reaching insights to which they should have found no path. They have always taken a particular delight (or seen a particular duty) in meddling with us, but of late their jests have become less frequent and their skewed stratagems more potent. It almost appears that they have become more focused, which, in its own way, is more disturbing than a shift in the other direction would have been.

Do not mistake me: I believe their ability to perceive layers of reality would be valuable. I simply do not find the price agreeable.

\-Mohninda Vajpayee Cheran, intelligence analyst, loyalist vizier

NOSFERATU

An oft-quoted mistranslation of the Book of Nod states, "In any Jyhad, the Nosferatu are first to die." The correct translation: "In any Jyhad, the Nosferatu are first to disappear." If you ever expect trouble to strike your city, keep a close eye on the Nosferatu. When they vanish down their boltholes and pull them shut, follow their example. They are the Cainite world's greatest survivors, and they can see a threat clearly before anyone else has more than a vague sense of unease.

If they have a flaw as a group, it is curiosity. I almost believe that some Nosferatu could subsist on knowledge alone if vitae were unavailable-they would certainly make the attempt. Feed this thirst and they will repay you in kind. Our clans have enjoyed a long and productive symbiosis that is far stronger than any transitory political considerations. I advise you to foster that relationship whenever possible.

If you have no choice but to destroy a Nosferatu, do not, under any circumstances, confront him on his home territory. We will never find your ashes.

\- al-Ashrad

TOREADOR

As a clan, the Toreador are frighteningly ineffectual. They'd rather stare at old pictures and oddly shaped stones and make wailing noises about their lost heartbeats than actually get out and do anything.

As individuals, some Toreador are frighteningly effi cient at whatever arts they apply themselves to. If an individual Toreador considers swordsmanship an art, you can bet your heart's blood that he's the equal of any two of our warriors. I reserve my personal fear for those Toreador who consider politics an art rather than a hobby-one of those is responsible for starting that whole Camarilla mess.

If the truth be known, the Toreador remind me a lot of

Fortunately for us, most of the clan still seems to be of the the viziers, but less organized-which is saying quite a bit. "paint smears and pretty rocks" school of thought.

\-Kurush Ishraqi, weather-wizard, loyalist sorcerer TREMERE

The Tremere may be the greatest threat to the Children of Haqim since the ancient struggles that shattered the Second City. They dragged themselves up by their boot- straps, usurping not only immortal blood but immortal power in so short a time as to seem a mere flicker by undying standards. Never trust a Tremere, never turn your back on a Tremere and never forget that they feared the Children enough to lobby for outright destruction. Their curse was a compromise. By some standards, the Tremere may be the perfect vampires: They are cold, rational, patient enough to wait yet swift enough to strike, never cursed by Caine, and deadly in their resolve and their arts. You may, if you like, consider a Tremere a cobra, coiled to strike at you for its own reptilian reasons and well armed with its own particular

venom.

If you are fortunate, I will teach you to be a mongoose. -Deviki Prasanta, Web of Knives Pentjak Silat instructor, loyalist ghoul

VENTRUE

Many Children of Haqim bitch and moan about our defeat at the hands of the Ventrue, the weaklings, the "rear- echelon motherfuckers," the spoiled rich boys from the Old Country. They say that we should have struck deep into Germany and England and burned them screaming from their castles, because the Ventrue are incapable of defending themselves. We fought them. We lost.

A lot of our clan can't understand how we didn't win, because all the Ventrue seem to do is trade favors and lounge around their courts. Understand this: we didn't lose to the Venue five hundred years ago. We lost to the Ventrue and all their allies and their servants and their friends and every poor peasant son of a bitch who ever made the mistake of making eye contact with his undying lord. Understand that, and you'll understand where the real strength of the Ventrue lies.

\-Lydia Dom, psychologist, loyalist sorcerer THE SABBAT

The Sabbat doesn't know what the hell to think of us right now, and we're pretty careful about how we view it. Most of our elders bugged out last year, and that pretty much fucked the Black Hand's leadership structure. Things were kind of tense for a few months, and a lot of us who stayed ently, though, our loyalty meant more to the higher-ups than behind were waiting for the hammer to come down. Appar

ranks, and the rest seem to be relatively free from Black our sires' disloyalty did. Some of us have moved up in the

CHAPTER TWO: PRAYERS TO BROKEN STONE 61

Hand or Inquisition suspicion. As long as we keep kicking Cammie ass, anyway.

The sudden surge in recruitment from the Mountain is another thing entirely. On one hand, it's nice to get confir mation of the reason for the Sabbat's very existence. The Antediluvians really do exist, and they're determined to wipe out everyone who won't kneel to them. Ur-Shulgi doesn't leave much room for doubt there, judging from the reports I've heard. On the other hand... shit. That's the kind of confirmation I could have done without for a long while. Now we need to figure out what to tell the rest of the Hand.

\-Michael diCarlo, sharpshooter, antitribu warrior LASOMBRA

Never, never, never underestimate the Lasombra. They are the Ventrue without the moral frailty. They are the Tremere without the pretensions, they are the Setites with out the posturing and they are none of these things. Elements among their ranks have also shared a common faith with us, as well as common lands. Those nights are long past, but many Lasombra still remember them. More than any other clan in the last two thousand years, they have been our occasional allies, and this makes them a greater threat than any other.

Fatima al-Faqadi, former Hand of Vengeance, dispossessed warrior

TZIMISCE

What a truly reprehensible collection of freaks, fuck ups and megalomaniacs. The Tzimisce are sort of like Silly Putty Toreador with the attitude problems of a Brijah on crystal meth. I truly fail to understand why the Lasombra persist in letting these fools think they're in charge. I mean, every so often, you may need someone to charge a machine gun, but that's no reason to waste effort on keeping them in figurehead positions and countermanding all their silly-ass dictates from behind the scenes.

Sooner or later, we'll get the order to give them what we gave the Tremere antitribu. I look forward to that night with an anticipation that mere words cannot describe.

\-Gene Bancroft, templar, antitribu warrior INDEPENDENTS

There is no such thing as independence in the Jyhad. There is only lack of awareness of one's masters.

\-ur-Shulgi

FOLLOWERSOF SET

The serpent metaphor is actually quite inappropriate for the Setites. Though they may be reptilian in appearance, they are more akin to a trapdoor spider in behavior. At any given time, any given Setite has three times as many schemes in motion as he is suspected of masterminding. Many of these will be interrelated, so that the failure of one will ensure that the responsible party blunders right into another. Never

make the mistake of engaging a Setite on his own battlefield, that of the social and political. You won't notice the fangs until they're in your throat.

For all their prowess in their chosen fields of entrapment and entanglement, the Setites have two rather useful weak- nesses. First, a typical one is so dedicated to cultivating external power that he himself may be relatively weak. Second, many members of the clan fall prey to the same blind idolatry of their founder that we are often guilty of. If you can exploit these, you may be able to remove the creature. -Sukainah, court advisor of Algiers, dispossessed vizier GANGREL

The Gangrel know many of the same things that we do. They don't have the same specifics, but they've been keeping their ears to the ground, and they're also aware that some very old, very bad things are waking up. Their decision to leave the Camarilla was not a political maneuver for sym- pathy or leverage -it was a calculated survival tactic.

You've heard the story about the two hunters who meet the bear? One starts lacing up his running shoes. The other asks, "what are you doing? You can't outrun that bear." The first guy grins and says, "I don't have to outrun the bear, I just have to outrun you." That's why the Gangrel got Sabbat. The Sabbat can run faster, y'see. out of the Camarilla and why their antitribu haven't left the

If you meet one of the newly independent Gangrel, necessarily make them

oblivious to social niceties, it just don't get condescending. Living with the animals does not

reduces their tolerance for bullshit and they are killing machines like most of the Sabbat thinks we are.

\-

\-Lydia Leszcznska, nomadic scout, antitribu sorcerer GIOVANNI

They command vast portions of underworld power. They have machine-gun-wielding minions at their beck and call. They measure their personal wealth in possessions and companies because mere dollar amounts have lost their significance. They have an extended family from which they can attain assistance anywhere in the world. They perceive aspects of reality that are forever closed to most of us.

I could be describing the Giovanni. Then again, I could be describing the crack dealers of the Chicago streets. Aside from the necrophilia, there's not much difference.

\-Khaled Johnson, bounty hunter, dispossessed warrior

RAVNOS

Everyone underestimates the Ravnos. They share our particular problem of a one-dimensional stereotype in other Cainite eyes. They also share our particular advantage of a great deal of internal diversity that the rest of the Kindred aren't aware of. We probably get along better with them than we do with just about any other clan, in part because survival in the places where we have the most contact with each other demands too much attention to leave much time for comparing fang sizes.

CLANBOOK: ASSAMITE

62

Of course, the lack of political arguments with them may have something to do with it, too. They're nonsectarian and have never demanded our heads on pikes, and they've never gone out of their way to arouse our ire by committing mass atrocities on the mortals. We stay out of their way, and they stay out of ours. Occasionally, we'll have to kill one of their younger, stupider kleptomaniacs. Occasionally, they'll have to kill one of our younger, stupider sociopaths. It's an equitable arrangement.

\-Gerhardt von Eich, negotiator, loyalist sorcerer OTHER PARTIES

SHAPESHIFTERS

Do you understand how those of us who walk the Path of Blood feel about the Camarilla? Most skin-changers have similar feelings toward all vampires, and they enjoy a similar position of relative strength.

Do not try to negotiate with them. Do not try to understand them. Do not try to use them or redirect them. They will offer you none of these considerations.

\-Kazimiera Zuyus, sculptress, loyalist sorcerer

MAGES

They are as old as we are, and so are their disputes. In general, most wizards treat you with a level of respect equal to that with which you treat them. They are mortals in form, which makes them inherently fragile, but they have several advantages over us-not the least of which is the simple ability to walk in the sun.

Some have heard of me, and mentioning my name may rescue you from trouble with a magus-once. Do not use this privilege lightly or expect it to be effective with all parties.

\-al-Ashrad

GHOSTS

We make lots of these.

Less flippantly: For some reason, we have little problem with hauntings, and few of us have reason to talk to the dearly departed. I understand that some sorcerers possess a fair degree of necromantic aptitude, but all of the names I've heard are attached to individuals who are still at Alamut.

\-Jessica Tate-Duncan, former DEA agent, schis- matic warrior

DISCIPLINES

As with any elders, the ancients among the Children of Haqim have developed their own unique permutations of the "common" Disciplines that the castes practice. However, their greatest innovations involve the Assamites' proprietary Discipline, Quietus. The blood magic of the sorcerer caste also offers several unique techniques unseen elsewhere in the Cainite world.

Auspex

that Auspex was his foremost tool. Regardless of the truth Some Assamites claim that Haqim was a scholar and of this statement, the vizier caste still wields Auspex with a precision and strength equal to that of any Toreador visionary or Malkavian prophet. Many viziers refer to the Discipline as "Haqim's Eyes" and use whispered invoca- tions to their clan's founder to help them focus their perceptive arts.

ANIMA GATHERING (Auspex LEVEL SEVEN)

The power of Psychic Projection allows limitless exploration. However, many of the experiences that it grants cannot be adequately conveyed to individuals who

cannot share them. Other would-be observers on the astral plane are left blind and deaf. The viziers believe

Anima Gathering originated as a technique for leading warrior-caste mystics on vision quests. It allows a willing seer to bring a small group of companions into the astral

realms with him.

System: All individuals who want to benefit from Anima Gathering must be in physical contact with the character who possesses the power or with someone who is in contact with him-in effect, they must form an unbroken chain of participants.

The player spends a blood point for each "follower" the character wishes to bring into the astral realm, up to a maximum of his Wits. He then leaves his body as per the system for Psychic Projection (Vampire: The Masquer ade, p. 152). As long as they remain in physical contact with the character, all followers are treated as if they know Psychic Projection, regardless of their actual Auspex ratings (if any). This temporary power functions as if each follower had rolled a number of successes equal to those that the "leader" rolled.

On the astral plane, followers remain within close proximity to their leader within 100 feet or so- tethered to him by a thin silver leash. They may not break this connection. This imposes no penalties save for a faint awareness of the leader's location at all times.

Any follower who loses her physical connection to the character instantly returns to her body and loses a number of temporary Willpower points equal to 8-the character's Wits. If this reduces her to zero Willpower, she falls unconscious until the next sunset.

MET System: The participants must be in physical contact as noted above. Spend a Blood Trait for each "follower," up to a maximum of half your permanent Mental Traits (rounded down).

If a "follower" loses her physical connection to you, she loses three Mental Traits, falling unconscious for the rest of the night if this reduces her to zero Mental Traits.

CHAPTER TWO: PRAYERS TO BROKEN STONE 63

CELERITY

One of the most primal Cainite gifts, Celerity has long been a favored art of the Assamites. Although its most common applications are martial, many viziers have de- veloped other uses for the preternatural speed that their blood can bring them. The clan's earliest records, such as the Parables of Blood, speak of "catching the wind," imply ing that the Assamites have been predisposed toward it since their inception.

PRECISION (CELERITY LEVEL SIX)

While many elder Cainites simply develop their superhuman reflexes to truly amazing levels, others find new and varied uses for the ability-like Precision. This focused technique allows its wielder to apply all of his intense energy to the smallest of targets. He effectively increases his fine manipulation capabilities beyond those of the most advanced mechanical lathes by moving so quickly as to disturb absolutely nothing save that which he actually touches. Cainite sculptors who have mastered Precision are capable of creating works of near-micro- scopic detail by striking so swiftly as to remove only the tiniest shavings of wood or stone. A certain medical specialist of the vizier caste is reputed to be capable of wielding surgical tools so deftly as to be able to reattach severed spinal tissue.

System: The player spends two blood points and a Willpower point and rolls Dexterity+ Crafts (difficulty 6, substituting an appropriate Ability for Crafts at the Storyteller's discretion). For each success, the player may add one dice to all rolls pertaining to precision, fine manipulation or moving something without disturbing its surroundings. This power lasts for a number of minutes equal to the character's Celerity rating.

The character is in something of a trance state as she concentrates on channeling all her speed into tiny, flick- ering motions. Any actions that do not involve fine manipulation are at +2 difficulty. Even conversation is a strain. The character may voluntarily withdraw from Precision before its duration elapses, but all benefits are lost without a subsequent re-invocation of the power. Under no circumstances does Precision give any benefits in combat (though it may allow the preparation of weap ons of fiendish intricacy).

MET System: Spend two Blood Traits and two Mental Traits. For the next five minutes, you gain two free retests on all challenges related to precision, fine manipu- lation or moving something without disturbing its surroundings. You lose all ties on challenges that involve gross physical movement, including combat.

OBFUSCATE

The legendary "invisibility" of the Assamites is a staple of many rumors about the clan. Most neonates have heard stories of fearsome assassins who can appear from thin air and vanish in a ripple of shadow. Many Assamite historians suspect, though, that Obfuscate was not one of the line's initial Discipline affinities at its Second City founding, and only one caste was predisposed toward it as recently as a millennium ago. Tonight, however, the vast majority of Haqim's Children are skilled in the ways of moving unseen. Warriors and sorcerers both hold a blood affinity for it, and many viziers seek at least basic instruc tion from their clanmates. Although most Assamites picked up their elders' habit of referring to Obfuscate as know the common name for the Discipline, many have

"the black veil," and "donning the veil" is a common expression for misdirecting others' gate away from oneself. BLITHE ACCEPTANCE (OBFUSCATE LEVEL SIX)

Many Assamites undertake pursuits that would seem less than savory to most observers. Indeed, simply being known as an Assamite is enough to draw suspicion in many circles. This Obfuscate technique serves to dampen the repercussions of its practitioner's actions to a certain extent, making anything he might be doing seem much more tolerable. Bear in mind that Blithe Acceptance has its limits: While carrying a rifle down a street might be overlooked ("I'm taking this to be appraised."), firing that same weapon into a passing car would alert even the most complacent observer.

System: The player spends a blood point and rolls Manipulation+ Subterfuge (difficulty 7). Any observer must roll an equal or greater number of successes on a Wits + Alertness roll (difficulty 8, reduced to 6 if the observer is actively looking for suspicious activity) to take note of the character's actions, so long as these actions are not physically threatening and the character does not attempt to directly interact with the observer.

Unlike most lesser Obfuscate powers, Blithe Accep tance remains in effect even if the character affects his physical surroundings or acts in an obtrusive manner. While using Blithe Acceptance, he could pick a lock, defuse a bomb, take money from a cash register or rappel down a skyscraper in Times Square, and all but the most perceptive or paranoid individuals would shrug his antics off and promptly forget ever witnessing them, as long as those actions stayed within the observer's definition of nonthreatening activity. The Storyteller is always the final arbiter of any given character's definition of "non- threatening."

MET System: Spend a Willpower Trait and two Mental Traits. An observer who wishes to take exception to (or even take note of) any nonthreatening actions you

CLANBOOK: ASSAMITE 64

make must defeat you in a Mental Challenge in which you win all ties.

QUIETUS

The Discipline now known as Quietus has undergone several shifts in focus since Haqim's judges first developed it during the nights of the Second City. In its modem incarnation, it is a Discipline that uses the unique proper ties of Cainite vitae for two purposes: direct martial applications and the dispensation of Second City-ena justice to other Cainites. In many cases, it's uncertain which of these purposes any given technique supports.

Initially, Quietus was a tool that only the judges used. Few scholars bothered to learn a Discipline that was little more than a series of techniques used to punish Cainite criminals. However, after the fall of the Second City, all of Haqim's Children found themselves in a situation where they were more likely than not to be the targets of other vampires who no longer had a use for overreaching laws or the enforcers of those laws. The scholars who prevailed upon the former judges to teach them Quietus for self-defense quickly found a variety of divergent appli cations of many of the basic powers. Any scholar who has ever entered a noisy library has wished for peace and quiet; Silence of Death (Vampire: The Masquerade, p. 175) quickly proved to be useful for more than silencing a public disturbance or suppressing the pleas of a cornered fugitive.

As the scholars explored other manifestations of Quietus, they began to develop unique permutations of these powers, either singly or with the conjunctive appli cation of other Disciplines. Some used their own blood to strengthen irreplaceable artifacts rather than melee weap ons, while others learned how to selectively nauseate an interview subject in order to encourage him to only speak the truth. Although they did not always have uses for Quietus's primary powers, many sorcerers and viziers adopted the Discipline to take advantage of the supple

WHAT'S A QUIET Oos?

in

Players wishing to portray Assamites may wish to be aware of the etymology and pronunciation of "Quietus." The Discipline has possessed a variety of appellations throughout its history. The current one is derived from the Middle English phrase quietus est, which roughly translates to "he is quit" and was used as a declaration of release from responsibility this case, release from the burden of guilt through an appropriate punishment. In modern usage, "quietus" may mean final settlement (as in that of a debt or obligation), death, cessation of activity or a thing that silences or suppresses. Literate Assamites pro- nounce it "kwi-EET-us" or "kwee-AY-toos," not "QUIET-us."

CHAPTER TWO: PRAYERS TO BROKEN STONE

65

mentary uses to which their peers put it. In time, the entire clan gained an affinity for Quietus.

Even Quietus's most basic powers have undergone several shifts over the millennia. The warrior caste, whose judge predecessors were the Discipline's origina- tors, has always set the tone for Quietus primary focus. As the warriors' general tactics shifted from overt to covert, so too did the Discipline's martial powers change emphasis from direct injury to indirect impairment. Ironically, many of the modern powers, which are less overtly damaging than those practiced two millennia ago, are closer to the judges' original tools of punish- ment and retribution. Additionally, the Tremere curse rendered one of the basic Quietus techniques useless to its users; the Children quickly adapted a less complex manifestation to fill the void left in their teachings.

As may be expected, some ancient powers still exist in the Final Nights. Elders who learned them when they were commonly accepted are unlikely to forget them, and these individuals may bestow these lessons on deserving neo- nates if they receive suitable respect and recompense. However, the hierarchy of Quietus's elementary applica- tions is, for the most part, static, like most low-level Disciplines. Archaic manifestations are remnants of for gotten nights, not commonplace incarnations of the modern Discipline.

BLOOD SWEAT (QUIETUS LEVEL SIR)

Although vampires do not have functioning seba- ceous glands, they are still capable of sweating at times of extreme stress. This "sweat" is actually a thin sheen of blood on the Cainite's forehead and palms. Most Kindred see blood sweat as an admission of fear or guilt. The Assamite who has mastered Blood Sweat is capable induc ing these feelings in a subject to a preternatural degree. The victim experiences a torrential outpouring of vitae if he harbors the tiniest shred of remorse for any action he has ever undertaken.

System. The character must be within line of sight of the subject and spend three turns in concentration. The player spends a Willpower point and rolls Manipulation+ Intimidation (difficulty of the target's Willpower). The target loses one blood point per success. Mortals sustain injury as if they had lost blood from being fed upon. The target actually "sweats out" the lost blood in a sudden rush of sanguinary perspiration that soaks his clothes. Large amounts may even form puddles at his feet. Blood lost through this process is considered dead, inert mortal blood and provides minimal nutrition (half normal) for Cainites desperate enough to lick it up from the floor or wring it out of towels. It provides sustenance for the individual from whom it most recently emerged.

In addition to the blood loss, the victim is overcome by a sense of remorse and guilt for his past transgressions (if he has a strong conscience) or an overwhelming compulsion to brag (if he is of sufficiently coarse moral character). The severity of this impulse depends on the number of successes rolled: One success causes a slight twinge of conscience, while five successes may result in a proud declaration of the subject's crimes. This effect is more storytelling-oriented than mechanical, and the Sto ryteller is the final authority on what the victim feels compelled to confess or boast.

Note that this power's existence is not widely known. Vampires and mortals alike tend to shrink away from someone who begins spontaneously sweating blood, and experiencing such an affliction may panic even the staunch- est individual.

MET System: Spend three turns (or fifteen seconds out of combat) in concentration and issue a Mental Challenge which your target resists with his Physical Traits. You may risk as many of your Mental Traits as you like in this challenge. If you win, make a number of Simple Tests equal to the number of Mental Traits you risked. For each such Simple Test you win or tie, the target loses one Blood Trait (or takes one level of lethal damage if mortal). SELECTIVE SILENCE (QUIETUS LEVEL SIX)

Although Silence of Death is an effective tool for the battlefield and the court alike, it is indiscriminate in its effects. The assassin who uses it in preparation for firing a shotgun also silences the radio over which her comrades might warn her of an oncoming guard. The courtier who suppresses a room full of dissenting voices is likewise unable to speak her own mind. Selective Silence allows the skilled Assamite to overcome these limitations by silencing only those individuals or objects that she wants to silence.

When using this power, most individuals exhale a thin mist of blood that clings to the selected subjects, gradually evaporating as Selective Silence's effects fade. Some Assamites also use a similar technique when invok ing Silence of Death, in which case the mist surrounds them and moves with them.

System: The player spends two blood points and rolls Stamina Stealth (difficulty 7). Each success is one individual or object that the character can silence with this use of the power. Each subject must be within 20 yards of the character. Objects larger than a man count as more than one subject: a heavy machine gun counts as two, a car as three, and a small aircraft as five. Objects larger than a private jet or creatures larger than an elephant cannot be silenced through the use of this power.

CLANBOOK: ASSANITE 66

Each subject is completely silenced for a number of minutes equal to the character's permanent Willpower. Nothing it does generates sound, though the secondary effects of its actions will do so normally. For example, a gun silenced with this power will not produce an audible explosion when fired, but its bullets still make noise as they break the sound barrier. A silenced victim can scream all he likes and not make a sound, but may be able to summon help by smashing a window.

MET System: The player spends two Blood Traits then makes a Static Mental Challenge against a seven- Trait difficulty for each object he wants to silence, up to a maximum number of subjects equal to 3+ his number of Stealth Ability Traits.

RIPPLES OF THE HEART (QUIETUS LEVEL SIX)

According to Assamite lore, this technique origi- nated with a Byzantine scholar who wanted to protect his herd from the thirst of other Cainites. Ripples of the Heart allows a Cainite to leave emotions within the bloodstream of any mortal from whom he feeds. Any other vampire who subsequently drinks from that mortal experiences those same emotions as if they were his own.

System: The character drinks at least one blood point from the subject mortal then spends a minute in physical contact with the subject while concentrating on the emotion he wishes to leave in her blood. The player spends a point of Willpower and rolls Charisma + Empathy (difficulty 7 under normal circumstances, 5 if the charac- ter is currently experiencing the intended emotion, 9 if he is currently experiencing a strong opposite emotion). The subject's blood carries the weight of the intended emotion for one lunar month per success rolled. A mortal's blood can only carry one emotion at a time. Subsequent at tempts to use Ripples of the Heart on the same individual have no effect until the previous application has worn off.

Any vampire who drinks from a vessel under the effects of Ripples of the Heart must succeed in a Self Control roll (difficulty of the mortal's Willpower) as soon as she swallows the first blood point. If she fails this roll, the vitae-bome emotion immediately overtakes her. The strength of the emotion depends on how many blood points she drinks. One blood point results in a momentary mood swing, two cause a significant shift in demeanor, and three or more generate a complete change in emotional state. Depending on the circumstances and the precise emotion, the effects of this may be spectacular or cata- strophic. A vampire overtaken by romantic passion may temporarily believe she is in love with the mortal (or any other convenient bystander). One who drinks from a hate-infused vessel may rend her prey to shreds, and one who takes a draught of a mortal touched with fear may run

away screaming. The vampire remains subject to the emotion for a number of hours equal to the mortal's Willpower, though she is still subject to other feelings after the initial rush of sensation.

The mortal who is under the effects of Ripples of the Heart is unaware of the power's effects on him, though he is slightly predisposed toward the emotion in question while the power is in effect. The vampire who used Ripples of the Heart on a mortal is immune to any of its effects he places on targets through the use of this power.

MET System: Drink from the target mortal, then spend a minute concentrating and expend a Social Trait and a Blood Trait. For the next month, anyone else who drinks from the subject must win a Static Mental Chal- lenge against a difficulty of your permanent Social Traits The mechanical effects of such artificial emotion are left or experience the emotion you left in that mortal's blood.

to the Storyteller's discretion, but may include modified difficulties for frenzy.

PURIFICATION (QUIETUS LEVEL SIX)

Although most mortal cultures affix negative conno tations to the spilling of blood, most Assamites-indeed, most vampires-have quite the opposite reaction to it. For them, blood is an unlife-affirming and reinvigorating substance. Purification works on this principle, using the power of vitae to cleanse and restore. Rather than purging foreign taints from the body, Purification allows its wielder to clean other individuals' minds and souls of stains, including those left by the mind control of other Kindred. The vampire using this power expels his own blood through his skin and allows it to soak through his subject, slowly dissipating. As it does so, it carries away spiritual impurities and outside influences.

System: The character touches the forehead of her intended subject, and both parties spend a minimum of five minutes in deep concentration. The player spends a number of blood points equal to the subject's Willpower. The subject rolls Willpower once for every external super- natural influence (a vampiric Discipline, usually, though other supernatural creatures may have their own unique powers) to which his mind has been subjected (difficulty of the level of the power in question +4, with a difficulty of 7 if the power has no level). A success nullifies that effect.

Purification has its limits. It can remove directly intrusive influences such as Dominate-implanted com mands, Dementation-generated derangements or the imperatives caused by elder vampires' Presence. It cannot dispel influences that are transmitted by blood, including a blood bond or the dispositions imparted by one's clan or bloodline, nor can it erase those caused by purely mun

CHAPTER TWO: PRAYERS TO BROKEN STONE 67

dane techniques such as persuasion, hypnosis or brain- washing, or genuine emotional states such as love and hate. It can remove mind-altering blood magic effects, but either the character wielding Purification or the power's beneficiary must have a level of Thaumaturgy equal to or greater than that with which the effect was placed. A character cannot use Purification on herself.

MET System: Spend a number of Blood Traits equal to your subject's permanent Mental Traits. Your subject may then make a Static Mental Challenge against a difficulty of 7 Traits for each external supernatural influ ence that he wishes to purge. Success nullifies that effect. The above limitations apply to this power's MET version as well.

BAAL'S BLOODY TALONS (QUIETUS LEVEL SEVEN)

The toxin generated by Baal's Caress (Vampire: The Masquerade, p. 176) is not enough to significantly harm some truly fearsome foes. This progressive development of that lesser technique allows its user to envenom his weapon with a blood-based poison so potent that it corrodes the very weapon that bears it, cating away at the strongest metal in a minute or less. However, its effects on its victims are spectacular enough to make the loss of even the most treasured blades worthwhile. This power's effects are of very limited duration, as the substance it creates will quickly evaporate away if it does not neutralize itself as it dissolves everything with which it comes in contact.

System: The character coats an edged weapon with her own blood, as per Baal's Caress. The player spends one or more blood points and rolls Willpower (difficulty 7). The weapon now does aggravated damage. It also gains a number of additional damage dice equal to the number of successes rolled plus the number of blood points spent. These extra dice fade at a rate of one per turn as the poison dissipates, drips off and reacts with the weapon's material. Once the extra damage dice are all gone, the weapon's base damage dice begin to fade at the same rate. The weapon breaks if used when its base damage is reduced to the wielder's Strength. The only weapons that can resist this corrosion are those created with a supernatural power of a level equal to or greater than the character's Quietus rating, and even this is subject to the Storyteller's discre

tion.

Baal's Bloody Talons is subject to the same limitations as Baal's Caress, except the limit on the number of successful strikes that do aggravated damage. A weapon affected by Baal's Bloody Talons does aggravated damage with every successful attack until it is destroyed.

At the Storyteller's discretion, the character may use the venom this power produces for other purposes, such as burning through a padlock or destroying an incriminating

CLASBOOK: ASSAMITE

68

tape. He may not, however, store this poison for later use -even if a container proves resistant to it, the substance becomes inert within a few minutes of leaving its creator's body.

MET System: Spend one or more Blood Traits and coat the weapon with your blood. It now does aggravated damage and gains a number of Envenomed traits equal to the number of Blood Traits you spent, which add to its bonus traits. On a successful strike with the weapon, you may make a Simple Test for each Envenomed Trait it currently possesses; success is an additional health level of damage. At the end of each turn, the weapon loses one Envenomed Trait. When it loses the last Envenomed Trait, it is destroyed.

POISON THE WELL OF LIFE QUIETUS LEVEL SEVEN)

Beyond just leaving emotional traces in a subject's blood, the master of this Quietus power can now taint that same vitae, making it into a deadly poison for any other Cainite who drinks from that mortal. Some Assamites use Poison the Well of Life to guard their own herds against "poachers" or to ward specific vessels against indiscrimi nate feeding. Others have been known to employ it as a subtle trap for other vampires, turning herds against their owners. Rumor has it that this power sprang from the clan's studies of the Tremere curse.

System: The character touches the mortal he wishes to taint and smears a streak of his own vitae on the victim's skin. The player spends three blood points and rolls Stamina + Occult (difficulty 7). For a number of months equal to the number of successes, any other vampire who drinks that mortal's blood sustains two health levels of

aggravated damage for every blood point imbibed. This damage manifests as a combination of acid burns and

something akin to toxic shock.

While a mortal is poisonous to vampires, his body's alchemical balance is slightly altered toward toxicity. He gains two extra points of Stamina for the purposes of resisting the effects and damage of poisons and acids. However, his bodily excretions, especially his sweat, are slightly more noxious than normal. He suffers a one-die penalty to all Social dice pools if whomever he chooses to interact with has a particularly sensitive nose and is close enough to smell him.

MET System: Touch your intended subject and spend three Blood Traits and any number of Physical Traits. For a number of weeks equal to the number of Physical Traits you spent, the mortal's blood is poisonous to any vampire except you. Any vampire who drinks from such a mortal sustains two health levels of aggravated damage for each Blood Trait he takes.

The mortal in question is up two Traits on all chal lenges to resist the effects of poisons and acids, but gains the Negative Social Trait Repugnant.

SONGS OF DISTANT VITAE (QUIETUS LEVEL EIGHT)

Many Assamite scholars believe this ancient power to have been in use as early as the Assamite judges' inception in the Second City, originally used as a powerful technique for punishing Cainites who fed improperly or with excessive cruelty. Blood magic practitioners and individuals skilled at Auspex have long known that vitae can carry residual impres sions of emotion and personality. This power invokes those impressions to overwhelm its victim with "remembered" images and sensations drawn from the vessels who held that blood before the vampire fed from them. Particularly strong- willed or hardened subjects may shrug off these visions as daydreams, but those who are less self-possessed can be permanently changed by the experience. A side effect of the use of this power is the partial destruction of the vitae from which the images are drawn. Some viziers theorize that this is the result of motes of the vessels' consciousness making an effort to escape their usurper.

System: The character touches his target and spends a turn in concentration. The player spends four blood

points and rolls Wits+ Intimidation in a contested roll against the victim's permanent Willpower (difficulty 7). If the target has committed diablerie within a number of nights equal to the character's Perception, the attacker gains one automatic success. The result depends on the number of net successes the attacker rolls. Note that in all invocations of this power, the sensations that the subject relives are expressly negative and terrifying-for ex ample, he experiences none of the pleasure that would normally accompany the Kiss when he flashes back to such an event.

of a successful attack loses a number of blood points equal In addition to the successes listed below, the subject to the number of successes rolled. This vitae erupts from his body in warm red trickles that do no damage but are certain to terrify onlookers.

Botch The attacker enters a flashback sequence in which he relives his last feeding from the vessel's point of view. If the player rolled three or more Is, the character acquires a permanent derangement related to feeding. Failure The target is unharmed and immune to this power for a number of nights equal to his Willpower.

1 success

The target experiences a brief (10-sec- ond/3-tum) flashback sequence in which he relives his last feeding from the vessel's point of view. During this time, he is at +2 difficulty to all rolls.

2 successes

The target experiences a brief montage (15 seconds/5 turns) of flashbacks during which his view point flashes between various feedings from the vessels points of view. During this time, he is at +3 difficulty to all rolls. Once the initial rush of sensation passes, he is unsettled and at +1 difficulty to all rolls until he succeeds

CHAPTER TWO: PRAYERS TO BROKEN STONE

69

on a Self-Control roll (difficulty 8), which he may attempt once per scene.

3 successes The target experiences a composite memory, assembled by his own subconscious, of the terror that various vessels felt while being stalked and fed upon. He must succeed in a Courage roll (difficulty 8) or in- stantly enter Rötschreck. If he succeeds in this roll, he is still at +3 difficulty on all actions for the rest of the scene due to the distraction that his visions impose.

4 successes The target is stunned and completely unable to act for a number of turns equal to 8-his Self- Control as he is bombarded by a sequence of the most terrifying memories of his various vessels. Once this initial onslaught subsides, he must roll Courage (difficulty 9) or enter Rötschreck. If he fails this roll, he must roll Self- Control (difficulty 8) or gain the Sanguinary Animism derangement.

5 successes The target is thrown into a nightmar ish reenactment of the greatest fears of every individual upon whom he has ever fed. He must roll Self-Control (difficulty 9) or fall into torpor for (10- the target's Stamina) nights, at the end of which he loses half his permanent Willpower and gains the derangement San- guinary Animism. If he succeeds on the Self-Control roll, he enters Rotschreck for the rest of the night, during which time his greatest fear is of his own image. At the end of the night, he must roll Willpower (difficulty 9) or lose a permanent Willpower point and gain the derangement Sanguinary Animism.

MET System: This is an Ascendant-level Discipline in MET. To use, fulfill all of the conditions described above and make a Mental Challenge against the victim (Intimidation counts for retests). If the victim has com mitted diablerie within the past week, the user wins on ties against him. If the Mental Challenge is successful, the player may choose to spend up to three Mental Traits. For each Mental Trait expended in this fashion, the victim loses one Blood Trait as the blood pours out of his body in

crimson tears.

1 Mental Trait

In addition to the above effect, the target spends 5 minutes reliving his last feeding from his vessel's point of view. During this time, he must bid an additional Trait in all challenges.

2 Mental Traits The victim suffers a montage of experiences from vessels he's fed upon, assembled by his own subconscious. The player must win a Courage Test against a difficulty of four Traits or his character instantly enters Rötschreck. Even if he succeeds at the test, he must bid an additional Trait in all challenges and loses on ties for a full hour or scene.

3 Mental Traits The target is thrown into a nightmarish reenactment of every feeding he's ever com- mitted, again from the perspective of his victims. He must

CLANBOOL: ASSAMIT 70

succeed at a Self-Control Test (difficulty 5 Traits) or fall into torpor for 10-half the victim's Physical Trait total, at the end of which time he loses half of his permanent Willpower total and gains the derangement Sanguinary Animism. Even if he succeeds at the Self-Control Test, he enters Rötschreck for the remainder of the night, during which time his greater fear is his own image. At the end of the night, he must win (not tie) a Simple Test or lose one permanent Willpower Trait and gain the derangement Sanguinary Animism.

CONDEMN THE SINS OF THE FATHER (QUIETUS LEVEL NINE)

Although the Second City's judges recognized that heritage does not equate to guilt, they also encountered many situations in which a vampire's entire brood had committed the same crime. In such cases, the judges often decreed the same punishment for all transgressors. This technique, which modern viziers believe to have origi- nated at that time, allows its wielder to administer such overreaching punishments. Through Condemn the Sins of the Father, a Cainite can apply lesser Quietus powers to an entire lineage. Some rumors within Alamut state that ur-Shulgi used Condemn the Sins of the Father as the core of the ritual that enacted the Breaking, though no one has yet explained how (or where) the Shepherd managed to find Haqim to use as the ritual's focus.

System: After successfully using any lesser Quietus power on another vampire, the player spends a permanent Willpower point and 10 blood points and rolls Stamina + Occult. The difficulty of this roll is equal to four plus the number of generations of the original target's descendants that the player wants to affect, up to a maximum of 10. If the roll succeeds, every descendant of the original target within the specified range of generations suffers the same effects that the original target experienced, resisting with his own relevant Traits. The player may exempt a number of potential subjects from this effect equal to twice the character's Wits, but the character must know their faces or have tasted their vitae.

Example: Ur-Shulgi is displeased with a certain Ventrue prince and wants to use Dagon's Call on him and all his descendants. The prince is of the Seventh Generation. To be certain of making a clean sweep, ur-Shulgi chooses to extend the blight all the way down to 13th generation, or six generations of descendants. Ur-Shulgi's player (and why the hell are you playing ur-Shugi, anyway?) must roll against a difficulty of 10. If the player makes the roll, every character who can trace his vampiric lineage to that prince, whether or not he's aware of his heritage, is subject to the same effects that the prince suffered from ur-Shulgi's use of Dagon's Call.

MET System: This is a Methuselah level power in MET. After successfully using any Quietus power on

another vampire, the player spends a permanent Will- power Trait and eight Blood Traits, and enters a Physical Challenge (retest Occult) with the target. The victim's Trait total is equal to his own Physical Traits plus twice the number of generations the Assamite wishes to affect. The power then affects all of the descendents within the specified generation range. Each descendent resists indi- vidually with appropriate Traits. The player may exempt a number of potential targets equal to his Mental Traits, but the character must know their faces or have tasted their vitac.

FORCED MARCH (CELERITY, FORTITUDE)

This focused application of superhuman speed and endurance has gradually fallen out of favor in the modern era, as aircraft and automobiles bridge distances in a single night that would take a man on foot a week or more to traverse. Still, in the desert nations that the clan claims as its center of power, modern transportation is neither available on a regular basis nor reliable when it is present. Many elder Cainites also prefer their own two feet to any noisy, reeking mechanical contraption, so Forced March still finds use.

System: Forced March may be used whenever the character is moving on foot for a protracted period of time. In effect, it allows continuous rapid movement without the devastatingly exhausting effects of combat Celerity use.

At the beginning of each hour of steady travel, the player spends a number of blood points equal to half the character's Celerity rating. The character's overland move- ment rate (normal human movement rate over most relatively flat terrain can be assumed to be 4 miles per hour, reduced by rough ground or poor weather) is multiplied by her Celerity rating. This bonus remains in effect only so long as the character is constantly moving, with no more than a minute's pause each hour-anything longer than dropping off a letter makes her lose momentum.

Forced March may be used for a maximum number of hours each night equal to the character's Fortitude rating. It is of absolutely no benefit in combat situations.

It costs 12 experience points to leam this power.

MET System: You may reduce out-of-game travel times by a factor equal to the number of Celerity powers you possess. For example, if you have the second Intermediate Celerity power, for a total of 4 Celerity powers, you divide normal travel times by 4. Each hour, or fraction thereof, of the number of Celerity powers you have. You may use this movement costs you a number of Blood Traits equal to half power a maximum number of times per night equal to the number of Fortitude powers you possess.

You must have Swiftness and Mettle to learn this power, which costs 6 Experience Traits.

CHAPTER TWO: PRAYERS TO BROKEN STONE 71

SHADOW FEINT (CELERITY, OBFUSCATE)

The way of the assassin is deception, not direct confrontation. However, even the most straightforward members of the warrior caste acknowledge the utility of misdirection in combat. This technique allows its wielder to slow her enemies' perceptions of him, leaving their image of her a fraction of a second behind her actual physical location. This makes the fighter's moves virtually impossible for an opponent to anticipate, allowing her to strike with little fear of reprisal.

System: The player spends a blood point at the beginning of a turn in which the character's Celerity is active, and the character's first action for the turn must be evasive movement. For the rest of the turn, all attack rolls made against the character have their difficulty increased by 2, to a maximum of 10. This power is considered an Obfuscate power for purposes of negation. An observer with sufficient Auspex is immune to it, as is one viewing his target through a video camera or other electronic intermediary.

This power costs 14 experience points to leam.

MET System: Spend an additional Blood Trait when you activate Celerity for the turn. Your Swiftness action for the tum must be evasive movement. For every attack on you this turn to which you respond with an evasion rather than a counterattack, you gain 2 bonus Traits.

You must have Swiftness and Unseen Presence to lear this power, which costs 6 Experience Traits.

BLOOD MAGIC (ASSAMITE SORCERY)

From a purely mechanical standpoint, the blood magic that the Assamite sorcerer caste practices differs little from that wielded by the Tremere. From a philo- sophical perspective, however, worlds of difference separate the two. The Tremere force every piece of knowledge they incorporate into the structured, rigid framework of high Hermetic invocation. By contrast, the sorcerer caste's practices are the result of millennia of adaptation and melding, and are too truly disparate to be considered "structured" in any real sense.

The Assamites' recorded association with blood magic began in the Second City. The first Assamite-affiliated sorcerers were mortal magicians to whom Haqim prom- ised eternal life in exchange for their loyalty and service against a cult of demon-worshipping vampires (and, some would say, other opponents both martial and political). Their earliest work, adapting their various arts to call upon the power of vampiric vitae, established the "ground rules" of modem blood magical practices, though many later

VAULTS AND GRIMOIRES

Like the Tremere, the Assamites maintain vast repositories of magical knowledge. Prior to the Schism, the clan's central magical library was in Alamut, with subsidiary collections in Bombay, Marrakech, Cape Town and Vilnius. When al-Ashrad's followers broke away from Alamut, they left the Great Library there -but took with them dozens of copies of its contents, encoded on sets of CD-ROMs by the last sorcerer to hold the Seat of Copper and Lightning. The Bombay collection is believed lost to the Cathayans, as net- ther faction of the clan has had communication with its curators since July 1999. The guardians of the Marrakech and Cape Town libraries are both firmly loyal to ur-Shulgi. The Vilnius facility's staff is be- lieved to be in transit to the United States to rendezvous with al-Ashrad, but their current where- abouts are unknown and their materials are out of circulation along with them.

The CD-ROM copies of the Great Library are a disquieting mix of high technology and ancient sor- cery. Each one spans 32 discs, most of which are taken up by digitized images of artifacts too fragile to photo- copy and too intricate to inscribe in the brief time that Sarah Schneier had to prepare for flight. The encryption scheme used is MI-5's latest, and not even al-Ashrad can explain how his late subordinate got her hands on it. However, Schneier's true master- work is in the enchantments that the disks bear. An adaptation of a Byzantine-era privacy ritual ensures that any attempt to copy the data fails: A straight data copy crishes hard drives and burns out processors, while more indirect attempts like taking notes from the monitor meet with other equally expensive me- chanical failures. Furthermore, the disks are protected by a fierce and eldritch guardian spirit. If any non- Assamite hand touches the disks or attempts to access their contents, something that witnesses describe as a vaguely humanoid whirlwind of blood droplets manifests. Its first action is to incinerate the disks. After that, it mercilessly assaults the offending party.

In addition to these communal resources, most Assamite sorcerers maintain their own private note- books and records. The form and language of these varies depending on each sorcerer's personal prefer- ence. Some prefer to laboriously scribe notes on fawnskin in Devanagri script, while others keep their records in three-ring binders and microcassette re- cordings. The most commonly used languages for formally recorded information are Arabic, Hebrew and Hindi.

Al-Ashrad is not known to keep journals. No one has ever reported seeing his personal library, if indeed he has one. Ur-Shulgi likewise does not apparently keep written records. It claims to have no need of physical reminders.

CLANBOOK: ASSAMITE

72

efforts duplicated this work in different ways. Some of these early blood wizards remained Haqim's blood bound ghouls, but others requested the Embrace from their master or various high-ranking scholars or judges. Under the leadership of Haqim and their eventual master ur- Shulgi, these latter blood magicians united into a cohesive group, drawing traditions and methods from both the scholars and the judges but remaining a subset of neither group. Over the next several thousand years, the clan's modern caste structure evolved, and the magicians - though never the most numerous Assamites-rose to equal their brothers in the Ancestor's eyes.

The modern body of knowledge that is Assamite Sorcery draws its content from a wide array of magical traditions, from the ecstatic rites of Kali and Shiva's followers to the subtle precision of feng shui to the elegant symbolic and mathematical transformations of Islamic alchemists and astronomers. In the words of the Arab philosopher al-Kindi, whom many sorcerers and viziers revere as a spiritual forefather, "We should not be ashamed to acknowledge truth from whatever source it comes to us, even if it is brought tous by former generations and foreign peoples. For him who seeks the truth there is nothing of higher value than truth itself."

The sorcerers took this and similar admonitions to heart, and still pay heed to such advice in the modem nights. The twin watchwords of Assamite blood magic, which seem slightly contradictory to many initiates, are discipline and pragmatism. With so many different ways to reach the same goal, Assamite studies of blood magic often guide a student toward whichever methods work best for him, even going so far as to trade an apprentice among five or six mentors before an agreeable partnership arises. However, the novice who takes such latitude as an oppor tunity to grow lazy or frivolous receives little mercy. The sorcerers recognize all too well that their tradition's very nature allows for many more paths to disaster than it does to success. Even when practicing those arts that use altered states of mind to achieve their goals, sorcerers are careful to use the experience rather than allowing it to use them.

MECHANICAL DIFFERENCES

00

Assamite blood magic, which is referred to as Assamite Sorcery when discussing the specific Disci- pline, is mechanically identical to the more common Tremere-codified Thaumaturgy that appears in Vam- pire: The Masquerade. However, though they work on similar principles (the use of vampiric vitae to fuel exertions of conscious will in order to effect change upon the physical or spiritual world), the two are not crosscompatible. A Tremere strives to perform his magic the same way, all the time, every time. An Assamite may never enact the same ritual the same exact way twice in a millennium (though some

ASSAMITE PATHS AND RITUALS

The sorcerers have equivalent teachings for many common blood magic techniques in addition to their own unique lessons. The following list is not an exhaus tive coverage of everything in the Great Library, but it is a starting point for players and Storytellers who wish to determine the capabilities of Assamnite sorcerers. It does not include those paths and rituals that this or other books have specifically designated as primarily Assamite in origin. The list is organized by book, presenting first the paths and then the rituals found in that publication to which the Assamites commonly have access. Names in parentheses are the names that the sorcerer caste prefers to use for each item, if the Assamite name differs from the commonly accepted one. Paths marked with an asterisk are usually options for an Assamite sorcerer to leam as his primary path, provided his instructor approves

Vampire: The Masquerade

Paths: The Path of Blood, The Lure of Flames, Movement of the Mind", The Path of Conjuring, Hands of Destruction

Rituals: Defense of the Sacred Haven (Curtain Will), Wake with Evening's Freshness (Black Sunrise), Communicate with Kindred Sire (Speak with Sire), Deflection of Wooden Doom (Turn the Impaling Shaft). Ward versus Ghouls, Principal Focus of Vine Infusion (Draught of the Pebble), Incorporeal Passage (Passage of the Ghu), Bone of Lies (Stain of Guilt)

Guide to the Camarilla

Paths: Elemental Mastery Neptune's Might Spirit Manipulation, Weather Control

Rituals: Engagingthe Vessel of Transference (Falsely Sealed Vessel), Incantation of the Shepherd (Shepherd's Silent Vigil), Purity of Flesh, Blood Walk, Buming Blade, Donning the Mask of Shadows, Warding Circle versus Ghouls, Sanguinary Assistant, Shaft of Belated Quies cence, Ward/Warding Circle venus Lupines, Splinter Servant, Ward/Warding Circle versus Kindred, Enchant Talisman, Ward/Warding Circle versus Spirits Ghosts/ Demons

Guide to the Sabbat

Paths: The Path of the Father's Vengeance (Path of the Ailing Jackal)

Rituals: Blood Rush, Illuminate Trail of Prey, Eyes of the Night Hawk, Machine Blitz, Recure of the Home land, Mirror of Second Sight

Blood Magic: Secrets of Thaumaturgy Paths: Alchemy, The Focused Mind (Echo of Nir vana), Path of the Blood's Curse

Rituals: Encrypt Missive (Loyal Eyes), Rebirth of Mortal Vanity, The Scribe, Sense the Mystical, Craft Bloodstone (Follow the Lie), Impassable Trail, Steps of the Terrified (Runto Judgment), A Touch of Nightshade (Haqim's Disfavor), Infirm Inert, Severed Hand

CHAPTER TWO: PRAYERS TO BROKEN STONE 73

Assamites do very well through rote and precision). He always goes through the same basic steps, but all the details between those steps might change to suit his mood and the situation.

As may be expected, students of Assamite Sorcery have great difficulty learning the practices of other blood magic traditions, as the basic principles diverge once one moves past "you are altering the world around you by an application of your will as the guiding force and your Cainite blood as the power source." All experience points costs to learn other blood magic paths and rituals are increased by half (round up) for Assamite sorcerers. In addition, even once the sorcerer has incorporated these lessons into her repertoire, they are still alien to her. All invocations of a "foreign" path require one extra blood point and all rituals take triple the normal time and require one extra success for any desired result (MET: one extra Blood Trait for paths, triple time and two extra Mental Traits risked for rituals).

Assamite blood magic should be recorded on the character sheet as "Assamite Sorcery." Should such a character manage to learn the basics of another blood magic Discipline, such as Thaumaturgy, Necromancy or Setite Sorcery, it should be recorded under its own name. Obviously, the player should keep separate track of which paths and rituals the character knows for which Discipline.

AWAKENING OF THE STEEL

Although combat mastery is hardly the sorcerer caste's primary goal, they have a long tradition of standing ready to defend themselves and, if need be, assisting the warrior caste on the battlefield (though they have not joined any large-scale struggle since the Long Night). Awakening of the Steel is one legacy of this preparedness, a path that some say began with the alchemists who studied in the forges of Toledo and Damascus. This set of techniques focuses on the symbolism of the sword as the ultimate extension of a trained warrior's body, drawing on the mythos that various warrior traditions attached to their swords and daggers: European Crusaders and their blessed blades, the kris of Indonesian Pentjak-Silat practitioners, and Indian Ghurka and their kukri knives, among others. The practitioner of Awakening of the Steel focuses on this symbolism as he uses the power of his blood to enhance his weapon and his skill.

A student of Awakening of the Steel finds that a keen understanding of both the form and the function of a blade is necessary for full mastery of this path. A character must have a level of either Melee or Crafts Ability equal to his level in Awakening of the Steel. Those who practice this path also find that its lessons are tightly focused, perhaps

to the point of overspecialization. The path is at its most effective with swords and knives, and the wielder can only extend its effects to other edged weapons. Any attempt to use a technique of this path on another edged weapon is at +1 difficulty.

MET System: Any use of this power on a different edged weapon requires an additional Blood Trait. You must have a total number of Ability Traits in Melee and Crafts: Blacksmith equal to your level of mastery. Awak ening of the Steel uses both Melee and Crafts: Blacksmith

for retests.

CONFER WITH THE BLADE

Although few Assamites claim to have actually spoken to a weapon's soul, blacksmiths and warriors alike have ascribed spiritual qualities to hand-forged blades for cen- turies. Practitioners of Auspex are familiar with the manner in which inanimate objects can bear impressions of their own history. Confer with the Blade allows a weapon's wielder to delve into the events that have occurred around his weapon. Some practitioners of this power claim this makes the weapon feel more "comfortable" in their hands, while others speak of the sense of history that an ancient

blade bears. The actual impressions only take an instant to gain, though many prefer to spend much longer in con- templation if time permits.

System: The number of successes determines the amount of information the sorcerer gains regarding the blade's history and its present state, as well as all informa tion yielded by a lesser number of successes. With three or more successes, the sorcerer may lower the difficulty on his next attempt to apply a blood magic ritual to the weapon by one.

One success Physical information only: precise length and weight (to the micrometer and milligram), chemical composition (assuming the character understands metal- lurgy), number of damage dice and type of damage (lethal or aggravated).

Two successes Historical overview: when and where the blade was forged, the name and face of its smith, brief glimpses of significant events in its existence.

Three successes Sorcerous understanding the type and relative level of power of any enchantments or supernatural enhancements that the blade possesses as well as the name and face of the individual who laid them.

Four successes Subliminal synthesis: compre- hensive knowledge of the sword's history. For the next seven nights, the character recognizes the taste of any blood that has ever stained the blade if she tastes it herself.

Five successes Total communion: The sword and the wielder become linked at a level deeper than the physical and more enduring than the immediate.

CLANBOOK: ASSAMITE 74

The Storyteller determines what information the sword holds for the character, but it may include any event in the blade's history or any aspect of its present existence and condition.

MET System: Make a Static Mental Challenge, risking up to five Mental Traits, against a difficulty of 7 traits. If you win, consult the above chart, substituting "Traits risked" for "successes." The Storyteller is the final arbiter of how much information any sword can give you.

GRASP OF THE MOUNTAIN

The best scimitar in all creation does its owner no good if it's lying five yards away from him. Grasp of the Mountain strengthens the spiritual bond between the sword and the swordsman in order to reinforce the wielder's physical grip on his weapon. A blade that is under the effect of this art never leaves its master's hand unless he so wills it.

System: For the rest of the scene, the character has a number of automatic successes to resist all attempts to disarm him equal to the number of successes rolled. He cannot accidentally drop the blade (which means his botches are likely to result in self-mutilation instead of an empty hand). If the character is somehow disarmed in spite of Grasp of the Mountain, he may call the blade back to his hand by successfully invoking this power again, assuming he has a clear line of sight to the weapon.

MET System: Spend a Mental Trait. For the rest of the scene, you may add your Mental Traits to your Physical Traits to resist attempts to disarm you, and you will not accidentally drop the weapon. If you are somehow dis- armed, you may call the blade back to your hand by winning a Static Mental Challenge with a difficulty of the number of paces between you and the sword.

PIERCE STEEL'S SHIN

At this level of understanding, the sorcerer can com mand his blade with such precision as to strike at an opponent's physical protection rather than his body. The sword transfers its full fury to the intended target, shred- ding even the toughest chain or plate. This strips away the victim's defenses, leaving him vulnerable to the next attack. While this power is of limited utility in modem nights, as full plate has fallen by the wayside, it remains in the path's progression of lessons due to its utility in destroying other obstacles.

System: For a number of turns equal to the number of successes rolled, each successful attack the character makes inflicts damage on the target's body armor rather than injuring him directly. Armor injured by this power must be of the metal variety. When the character makes a success ful attack against an armored target, the player does not roll damage. Instead, he rolls a number of dice equal to the sword's damage bonus (the number of dice that it adds to his Strength) against a difficulty of 7. Each success reduces

CHAPTER TWO: PRAYERS TO BROKEN STONE

75

the armor's soak bonus by one die. Armor that is reduced to zero soak dice in this manner is completely destroyed and unsalvageable.

While Pierce Steel's Skin is in effect, an attack against an unarmored target inflicts half damage (rounded down). Additional successes beyond those needed to destroy a piece of armor have no effect. At the Storyteller's discre- tion, Pierce Steel's Skin may destroy other inanimate objects (walls, doors, cars, dramatically appropriate ob- stacles) without significant damage to the sword. For the purposes of this power, Fortitude counts as part of the target's Stamina, not external armor.

MET System: For this turn and the next three turns, any successful attack you make with the weapon destroys two health levels' worth of armor protection for every one health level you would normally inflict. At the Storyteller's discretion, you may cut through inanimate objects that your weapon would not normally damage, with dramati cally appropriate effects.

RAZOR'S SHIELD

Many swordsmen hold that the duel is the ultimate test of the warrior because it places all opponents on an equal footing: Death is only three feet of steel away, and only the skill of the combatants determines who walks away. However, observers who are more pragmatic than romantic note that an enemy with a ranged weapon, be it bow, sling or gun, has the advantage of striking from much farther away than arm's length. While Awakening of the Steel cannot completely counteract this advantage, this power allows the skilled sorcerer some measure of defense as the sword interposes itself between its master and attacks from afar.

System: For a number of turns equal to the number of successes rolled, the character may attempt to parry pro- jectiles. This requires one action for each projectile that the player wishes to block, and the character must be able to see the shot coming (Heightened Senses allows visual tracking of bullets). Each parrying attempt requires a Dexterity+ Melee roll, with a difficulty determined by the speed of the projectile. Thrown objects have a difficulty of 6, arrows and crossbow bolts a difficulty of 7 and bullets a difficulty of 9. Each success subtracts one of the attacker's successes on his attack roll.

Razor's Shield does not allow the character to parry ranged attacks that do not incorporate solid projectiles. such as flame, lightning or spat blood.

MET System: For this turn and the next three tums, you may use your Melee Ability Traits to retest in chal- lenges where you are subject to ranged attacks. You must be able to see the projectile. Bullets require Heightened Senses or a comparable power.

STRIKE AT THE TRUE FLESH

Although pacifists may find other uses for blades, turning their swords to plowshares, a warrior knows that swords were created for one purpose: to carve an enemy's flesh into bloody ruin. Strike at the True Flesh invokes the very essence of the sorcerer's weapon, reducing it to the embodiment of its very definition (or, as the more classi cally minded would put it, invoking the Platonic form) while simplifying its target to a similarly basic level. The results of such an invocation are usually devastating on both a philosophical and practical level as weapon and victim momentarily lose all supernatural attributes.

System: The effects of Strike at the True Flesh last for a number of turns equal to the number of successes rolled, and they end with the first successful attack that the character makes within this time period. The sword inflicts only the base amount of lethal damage that a weapon of its size and type would normally cause, disre garding all enhancements that it may have received (though augmentations to the wielder's strength or speed, effects, as do extra successes on the attack roll). such as Potence and Celerity, still have their normal

However, all the target's supernatural defenses (in- cluding Fortitude) are likewise negated-he soaks the attack only with his base Stamina. If the negation of his powers and defenses renders the target unable to soak lethal damage, he cannot soak the attack at all. Body armor does protect against this attack, as it is a mundane form of defense.

MET System: Expend two Mental Traits in addition to the power's Blood Trait cost and make an immediate attack with the sword, which counts as part of this action. For this attack, the sword loses any supernatural modifiers it might otherwise provide for accuracy and damage. inflicting only the base amount of damage for its type (though your Potence, Celerity and similar powers still affect your own strength and speed).

Your victim may not use any supernatural powers to absorb, negate, redirect, or otherwise affect this damage (including Fortitude powers). Any extra health levels are bypassed-if all of a target's normal Healthy levels are crossed off as a result of this attack, he instantly loses all "extra" ones and any further damage from the same attack is applied to his Bruised health levels. Body armor provides its normal degree of protection.

MERITS AND FLAWS

MAGICAL ADDICT

(3-OR 5-PT. PHYSICAL FLAW)

Whether through a weak will, a lingering anomaly from your mortal days or overuse of ritual components like

CLANBOOK: ASSAMITE

76

kalif, you have become addicted to the alchemical psycho- active drugs that some sorcerers use to focus their blood magic. Going beyond a mere physical or psychological addiction, this dependence goes so far as to affect your very mastery of the powers at your command. Your compe- tence with Assamite Sorcery is dependent on the frequency at which you cater to your addiction.

If you take this Flaw at 3 points, suffer a +2 difficulty to all rolls related to blood magic, including (but not limited to) use of path powers and rituals, whenever you are not under the effect of your drug of choice. For 5 points, you are completely unable to focus yourself enough to perform even the simplest blood magic if the drug is not in

your system.

Only characters with at least one dot in Assamite Sorcery may take this Flaw. Non-Assamites may take this Flaw if they somehow receive tutelage in the Discipline.

MET System: If you take the Flaw at 3 points, you must bid two extra Traits on all challenges related to your blood magic when you are not under the influence of your substance of choice. For 5 points, you may not use any of your blood magic powers or rituals without the aid of your preferred chemical. You may not take this Flaw unless you have at least one basic Assamite Sorcery power. For the assistance of the terminally stupid, we'll say this explicitly: Roleplay your character's drug use, don't actually do it yourself.

UnBroken (3-pt. Supernatural Flaw)

For whatever reason, the Tremere curse was stronger in you than in most of your clanmates. This was no great liability while all of you were so afflicted. However, when ur-Shulgi cast the Breaking, the great ritual's power did not fully cleanse you. You now share your caste's thirst for Cainite blood-but for you, the very substance you crave is still a poison.

The Tremere curse that once affected your clan has been weakened in you, but it is not completely gone. When you drink non-Assamite Cainite vitae, each blood point enters your blood pool normally. However, on the way down, it inflicts one automatic, unsoakable level of lethal damage in a combination of unnatural toxic shock and internal acid burns. On the plus side, all your difficul- ties to resist the warrior caste's addiction are at-1 difficulty

think of it as aversion therapy. If you are a sorcerer or vizier, this Flaw is worth one additional point (for a total of 4), but you gain the warrior caste's addiction in addition to your own caste's weakness.

MET System: You take one health level of lethal damage for every Blood Trait of non-Assamite blood you ingest, though these Blood Traits do enter your Blood Pool after the damage is inflicted. You may not use Fortitude powers or other supernatural abilities to reduce this dam- age. Yougain one free retest on every Self-Control challenge dealing with the warrior caste flaw.

CHAPTER TWO: PRAYERS TO BROKEN STONE 77

CHAPTUR THREE:

SONS AND.

DAUGHTERS OF HAQIM

We few, we happy few, we band of brothers For he to-day that sheds his blood with me Shall be my brother -Henry V. Act IV. Scene iii

Three castes. Four factions. A hundred tongues. Ten thousand years of history.

With all these factors, categorizing the Children of Haqim becomes an impossible task. Nevertheless, some attempt it. The following characters may be seen as representatives or as exceptions, depending on the view any given observer takes. Some are ready to play, fresh

from the Mountain and ready to prove their worth- just season their histories and Traits. Others have witnessed the passage of countless centuries and should not be trifled with, lest they drain the interloper dry and leave his desiccated corpse on a mountainside as a warning to others.

CHAPTER ONE: HOW QUICKLY WE FORGOT

79