Clanbook Tzimisce 

CLA

O K

Tzimisce

CLAN B

ок

Tzimisce

BY LUCIEN SOULBAN AND JAMES STEWART

CREDITS

Written by: Lucien Soulban and James Stewart Additional Material by: Jess Heinig Developed by: Justin Achilli

Editor: John Chambers

Art Director: Richard Thomas

Layout & Typesetting: Becky Jollensten

Interior Art: Guy Davis, Leif Jones, Vince Locke, Matt

Mitchell and Christopher Shy

Front Cover Art: John Van Fleet

Front & Back Cover Design:Becky Jollensten

Intern: Matthew O'Connor

SPECIAL THANKS, RAVE EDITION

Oh, never mind. Like I remember.

YARBLOCKOS\!

That nasty, villainous puke seat.

735 PARK NORTH BLVD

SUITE 128

CLARKSTON, GA 30021

WHITE WOLF USA

GAME STUDIO

2001 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Reproduction without the written permission of the pub- lisher is expressly forbidden, except for the purposes of reviews, and for blank character sheets, which may be repro- duced for personal use only. White Wolf, Vampire, Vampire the Masquerade, Vampire the Dark Ages, Mage the Ascen- sion, Hunter the Reckoning, World of Darkness and Aberrant are registered trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Werewolf the Apocalypse, Wraith the Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, Werewolf the Wild West, Mage the Sorcerers Crusade, Wraith the Great War, Trinity, Children of the Night and Clanbook Trimisce are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights re- served. All characters, names, places and text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, Inc.

The mention of or reference to any company or product in these pages is not a challenge to the trademark or copyright concerned.

This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters and themes. All mystical and supernatural elements are fiction and intended for entertainment purposes only. Reader dis- cretion is advised.

For a free White Wolf catalog call 1-800-454-WOLF. Check out White Wolf online at

http://www.white-wolf.com; alt-games whitewolf and rec.games.frpatoryteller

PRINTED IN USA.

CLANBOOR: TIIMISCE

2

C

L A

ок

Tzimisce

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION: WINTER FIEND CHAPTER ONE: ARABBLE OF FIENDS CHAPTER TWO: EGO AND EVOLUTION CHAPTER THREE: AMONG FIENDS

CONTENTS

3

4

8

38

74

WINTER FIEND

November 22nd 1942-Sunday

The landscape was a white vastness, a world without a horizon to separate the earth from the chokog mist of the flat Russian steppe Obergefreiter Dietrich Walling, officer in Hitler's saunrad Wehrmacht, surveyed the once-proud siege engine of the 22nd Panzer Division. His whitewashed Panzerkampfgen TV Say alone and falf-bred big snowdrifts. The OK me posters never showed the soldiers standing around tanks, watch ing them burn for the brief moments they pushed away the cold.

The remnants of the panzer division ran out of petrol abour 150 kilometers west of Volgograde, near the indentation of the Rover Chur The Russian counteroffensive in the Stalingrad campaign began three days ago when a thick mist strangled visibility from the air and biting cold scattered warmth to the four corners Artillery flashed and thundered in muffled fury, and engaging tardes collided with one another in a clumsy baller of the blind. The air was thicker than milk, but the Russian 8th Cavalry still surrounded the beleaguered 22nd Division and picked away with their snipers, the a tanks, Dietrich's group finally mashed through the blockade yesterday and vanished

to the steppes. Now, broken and dying, they wanted for the Russians. The artillery and tank thunder, however, driftalaway with morning, leaving the landscape unerringly silent beneath a pissy soup of white

Kate Holden-Dietrich's gurmer and the only other ervisor from his Panzer stumbled out from the snow burdenal curtain of air. He looked fresh out of Hitlerjugend, with only a tuft of unshaved fuzz on his chin and an oil-smeared face soding his youthful Aryan looks. A thigh-length overcoat of frown shepskin hung loosely from his hony shoulders. He was unneling a towline from a large spool

"What are you doing?" Dietrich asked Grizzled with facial growth and dirt that highlighted premature wrinkles, he wore a black field jacket and sheepskin cap. Otherwise, he could have cut a handsome figure, civilization permitting.

2 found this on a Tier about 20 meters northeast of here hooked the other tanks together, in case we needed to fired each other in this squall Leutnant Habsmann ordered me "Halsman is that rat-facal bastard still alive" spat 'n surprised they didn't ship him out to Poland with the rest of the Jews

"Sir, he's not"

rich

kraw what he says, you idior" Dietrich raged. "But he's not Aryan either. He may have fooled the Reich Agency for Genealogy, but you can see the Semite blood in him. It's in his doped brow, his frizzy black hair and his hooked nose. Didn't they teach you that in Hitlerjugend

"Yes, sir, they did, but I cant. I can't disobey Halsmann He outranks us both. Also, he wants us to gather at his Tiger He says if we share the warmth, we'll less likely freeze

"You go if you want, but I won't make it easier for the Russians to find us. I'm staying here"

"Well"Holden continued nervnuly, I finished cataloguing the condition of the tanks around us, but I don't have paper to write on

Dietrich tyred his subordinate it was ikdier the Kanone stuffed whatever paper he had into his pants to keep himself warn

five tanks scatteral throughout the area

This was a w

of unspoken truths

no petrol in any of them..."

Dietrich said nothing about the Balkan sheepskin cap Holden had lifted from a dead Romanian officer, and Holden said nothing about Dietrich's black field jacket decorated with an Unterofficier's chevrons.

...one Panzer 1 is carrying dead soldiers.

This was a far cry from the proud German phalanx that swept through the Ukraine, freeing places like Irum and Svatove from Communism. The villagers, winnowed by famine, heralded the Wehrmacht's arrival as the new Crusade come to up the Antichrist Stalin from his throne of bones. They took the German black crosses to mean hope, and Dietrich took their hope to mean victory. That belief died at the altar of Stalingrad.

face torn off"

"What? Repeat that\!" Tetrich ordered when he realized he'd missed something important

I found a Panzer 11 covered with dead Romanian soldiers. They blocked the natches, I tried removing the soldiers to get into the tank but they were frozen to the metal I pulled too hard on one. ... I think I tore his face off

bins."

You think

"Well, yes. I mean, he couldn't have looked that way before,

"Who was in the tank?"

Idon't know Frozen corpses covered the hatches and storage

"So all the corpses off

but... Won't tear off their faces, sir "Have you ever skinned a rabbit?"

"Uh, yes yes, sir.

"This is no different. At least rabbits serve a purpose. Go back pull off the corpses, and scavenge what you can. Don't forget to check the fuel tanks under the floor. We can't serve our Führer by dying here

Helden was shocked a moment, then nodded blindly before setting off into the curtain of white,

And Helden Dietrich added, "say nothing to Habsmann If you find anything, we'll barely have enough for ourselves Understood

Two hours had passed since Holden had left, and now, Obergefreiter Walling suspected his subordinate had abandoned fum in favor of Hamann Dietrich rested in the commander's chair and stretched his legs against the main gun's recoll gard He sat in dried blood, but the thought never bothered him Oberleutnant Westermayer deserved that sniper buller when he stood on his chair and stuck his head out from the turret hatch He was already dead when he tumbled back through and

WINTER FIND

Holden's expression betrayed all his concerns. Still, he said nothing and tethered the towline to the panzer's forward cable hooks "Continue with your report. What else did you see our there aside from that mongrel Habsmann"

spattered the interior with thick clots of blood. At the time, Dietrich ignored the crimson gore on his overalls and continued steering That was a fifetime ago, last werk Dietrich found he grew more murad against the violence with each minute. Not even the bits of flesh or blood encrusted on his clothing bothered him

anymor

A bitter night chill had settled over the region, forcing Dietrich back into the back interior of his tank for shelter Although the hatches, pistol ports and cupola's vision slots were all dosed, the heat still escaped like water through a sieve Dietrich marwled at how this blade of the Wehrmacht could resist Russian bullets and shells it couldn't keep out the Soviet Empires greatest soldier. "General Frost Dietrich didn't want to freeze, but he'd long run out of canned heat and had nothing to burn with his lighter. If hewanted to survive, he'd have to leave the sanctuary of his panzer and search the nearby vehicles Holden mentioned something about five other tanks; one of them probably had something worth scavenging, but he'd have to take care not to approach Habimann's Tiger

Dietrich checked the chip on the Sturmgewehr 44 machine pistol and was about to open the hitch when something darkened the turrets glass vision blocks, Instinctively, Dietrich backed away into the low-calling forward compartment, where he bumped into the driver's sent. It couldn't be Holden or any other soldier in the vision, Tetrich thought. They all knew to rap their wrenches or gun butts on the hatch before entering lest they find their heads blown off by edgy panzer crews. Someone peered inside, fnur it was too dark to see anything

A hiss of cold air slipped into the tank, along with a faint wash of winter white the intruder opened the cupola hatch Dietrich felt the pit of his stomach drop away and his blood plummet along with it like a waterfall. Some primordial instinct in the back of his skill screamed for Dietrich to run. This wasn't the enemy; this was a hunter.

Carefully, Dich reached behind him and ran his fingers along the recess in the celling The cupola's hatch was completely pulled back Small edities of fine frost drifted through the opening and settled over the reddish-brown interior, Dietrics questing fingers snagged a Gates He pushed it gently painfully aware of the low groan it made fut the driver's escape hatch finally opened with a satisfying pop More coll air slipped through and filled the forward compartment. Quietly, Dietrich positioned himself beneath his exit. He could see a pair of maky-white hands that tapered off into serrated claws slip past the cupola's th Abaar? A clever wolf? Whatever was coming in was doing so head first Dietrich didn't wait around to see the creature's face he pushed off the driver's chair, through the hatch and into the bristling cold air

Wal visibility airly one, the fending wirulpt may all noise and claimed le as its own. Dietrich looked back at the white- washed turret just in time to see black jackboots ship through the hatch Dietrich leapt off the tank and grabbed the towline linking him to the Tiger Holding on, he pushed his way through the knee- deep drifts, into the worsening storm.

The drifts grow deeper, slowing Dietrich down, but he pushed tunagh the i After what seemed forever, Dietrich arrived at the Tiger was a pra guzzler and ungraceful. It wasn't called a "Furniture Van for itlogance Even now, half hidden in a growing snowdrift it looked unwiddy and ugly Patches of commerit, anti magnetic mine paste, had fallen away, revealing a morrfing of gray The narret's side-hatch stood wide oven Dietrich malled himself out of

the snow and onto the Tiger's skirt. He peered inside the empty bank The crowmust be dead thought Dietrich, but he had little concern for them now, wherever they were Dietrich exted and unhooked one of the four towfines that led him furthest from his own panter. He took the loose towline and pulled himself through the snow while winding the

excess cable around his shoulder.

Whatever stalked him would probably go after the other vehicles still tethered to the Tiger, leaving Dietrich safe and alone in his isolated tank. He knew his actions would cost the lives of his affies, but that was a sacrifice he was willing to make on their behalf Besides, not a one was loyal to Germany anymore. Since Stalingrad, the soldiers privately scoffed at the weekly propa ganda reports from the Ministry for Public Enlightenment ofthe war faltered, it was because Hitler allowed lesser species to fight alongside the German Volk and becauseweak men with weak blood fought on the frontlines Indignant and angry, Dietrich struggled through the snow, cursing the Reich for betraying its own dreams.

The Panser was sixtonssmaller than Dietrich's Kampf but it had been refitted with a 50mm gun Stall, snowdrifts wishal on its skirt mining it until next spring Fated white, it was nearly lost against the blizzard The only feature that stood out against its surface were 10 Romanians covering the tank file maggots on a corpse: They were all facedown, dead and stuck to the exposed metal blocking the four major hatches Dietrich realized, alongwith the air intake and exhaust ports. Somebody positional them deliberately, and for a moment, Dietrich found himself appreciating the cold and barren logic that required such action

Tve walked into the lion's den Dietrich mattered. What ever was stalking his division had made his home here, but with the storm already covering his trail Dietrich had no hope of finding his way back. This panzer was his only salvation

Besides Dietrich continued to himself, "whatever barred the hatches did so for a reason." If it was protecting something then it was worth Dietrich's attention

Ditch dropped the cable and scrambled up to the soldier faunched over the commander's hatch With a firm grip on his shoulders, Dietrich tried prying him off the tank. The corpse's face came off in stiff strips, leaving behind patches of flesh on the metal, but the body remained stuck something had mauled his face begeral recognition, ripping open his jacket and winter clothing as well. The soldier's exposal stomach and chest were likewise fraten to metal frut not in the way Dietrich expected The soldier appeared anchored to the metal, with his exposed flesh hooked or melted into the hatch lining Dietrich didn't care They were only Romanian

Dietrich took out his knife and cut away at the flesh separating the corpse from the hatch Just like skinning rabbits. After a few moments of cutting and sawing, he used the reprint to dig out the flesh in the lining before finally opening the cupola's farch A wave of warm air and the smell of butcher-shop viscera washed over him. The interior was humid Half frozen and minutes away from frostbite Dietrich dropped into the tank slamming the hatch shut with a loud clang on his way down. Warmth enveloped him

A noxious mix of offal and innards filled the patch-black interior, but that didn't bother Dietrich terribly. He'd spent his summers on a Kummiraz sheep farm south of Berlin and was inured to the smell of death. It was the low mewling and sobbing all around him that grated on his nerves Dietrich fumbled for his fighter and lit it up. The shadows danced into flickers, darkening

CLANBOOK: TIMSC

the nooks, crannies and corners of the panzer's guts. That's when he found the other survivors

The interior of the tank was the Devil's abattoir. Holden, Habmann and at least four other soldiers lay stretched out over the equipment, chairs, ammunition bins, walls, couing and floor. Their bodies had the consistency of warm tallow drooping and Hmp. It was as though Satan had smeared them across Creation's face with his theme Five different intestines braided around cach other and snaked through the interior like Christmas tinsel, while flayed flesh stretchaf over the walls. More shocking, perhaps, was that the soldiers had all been turned inside out, yet they still seemed to live. Organs pubed and pumped their precious finds while they hung from fie recos guard and lay draped over and argund the chairs. The mowling came from the flattened faces of Holden and the others with deflated mouths and vocal cords stretched like washed linen, they could do no more than cry and gurgle Anunciation was a lest gift

Dietrich shook his head in amazement and mutteral. "Mag- nificent. Despite the carnage, it possessed a functional aesthetic often lost on the battlefield. Dietrich had seen his share of sewered limbs and shrapnel eviscerated comrades, but that was fate alonz This was pure function and cold-hearted britance Dietrich's father told him stories about how ancient hunters split open deer and slept in their innards for warmth when trapped by blizzards This was practicality taken to the extreme. The tank's interior had been covered with gutted fat living soldiers whose exposed innards and blood vessels provided warmth The soldiers maste sealed in any escaping heat. This was calculated and perfect pragmatism. This was what the German army lacked tocarryout

the Thousand Year Ref

"Aren't you going to salute a superior officer a voice asked Je was languid, almost slippery.

Dietrich spun around, nearly killing the lighter's meager tongue Sitting in the radio operator's chair and shadowed by a low ceiling, sat an SS Brigadeführer und Generalmajor Dark- ness covered the man's face, but Dietrich could see the white undershirt beneath the black uniform, the wet field-gray great- coat with black collar, double-lightning bolt lapels, the flared freeches and wet, black fuckboots. On his lap rested a field gray cap with a silver skull and crossbones pin

would Dietrich ventured, if I didn't think you were going to try and kill me. Or should I say tried

You're in cellyve you that Sneaking out of your panzer was yelse but was impressed with the way you took the line to this tank. You were hoping I'd go after the others, weren't you?"

"You saw me?" Dietrich asked doubtfully. "How? I left you

behind

"Will you didn't summon this storm, did you

And you did Dietrich sacred

The Generalmajor leaned forward, allowing the light to touch his face. He was stunning, nearly painful in Aryan perfection His hair was golf silk against alabaster skin, his nose and fun thin and imperiat, his cheeks were cut of marble, and his Rhine-blue eyes carried the wolf's glare His face was perfect and without deficiency, he embodied the idealized Nordic warrior Himmler so proudly espoused in his elite Schutzstaffel. His stare whittled Dietrich to the bone, it was an intrepid and cruel heart

that cast that gaze. Suddenly, Dietrich realized that there was nothing this creature couldn't do

The new man is among ust" Dietrich mumbled, quoting Hermann Rauschning's Hitler Saks will tell you a secret. Thave seen the visum of the new man-fearless and formidable. ... shrank from him the Generalmajor concluded You read Hitler Speaks

"It was entertaining," the Generalmajor allowed

I remember a time," Dietrich ventured, "when I would have followed the Fuftrer into Hell"

And now

I've seen what it looks like... Russia has been one defeat after another because of Hirler. He's betrayed his promises fo us

"You speak treason."

Then we are both on the firing line, Dietrich grinned with a look to Holden and the others. "What are you?" he finally asked

"Can you not see it in my face the Generalmajor exclaimed with a feral smile. "I am the spirit of your ancestors given blood 9 am Nordic heritage brought to the fore

"There's more to it than that," Dietrich ventured

Yes there is, but that will come in due time. I've decided to spare you. I appreciate your curning it might just help us both survive

"What do you man

"Hitler's war isn't our war. Ours is more ancient in the remembering This advance into Russia was an attempt to regain soil lost to us since the red storm swept Russia. Unfortunately, we relied on your kind to fight for us, and that misplaced triest has cost us Now I must return empty-handed. You're right, Hitler Himmler and the rest of them have betrayed you, but they are of no consequence. They served their purpose"

"But why are you here, in this desolate place

was fighting my enemies when the Russian counteroffen sive began, the Generalmajor proclaimed "protected this place for the while it took me to rest, stay warm and regain my.. strength I'm ready to leave. You were going to be my last meal. but you make a worthier Unterofficer

willingly, though I don't know who I serve or why"

That too will come in time, fnut I'm offering you the chance for a purity you've never known. You can be like me, withour impediment or soiled body 2 offer perfection of thought. That is

you need know for now"

fabandon the army, I will be shot as a deserter

Ho, the Generalmajor offered. "As far as they know you fanged grin, they are right The Generalmajor moved with a died here, tonight. As far as you're concernal," he added with a

speed that killed Dietrich's flame, dousing the tank in darkness He slammed the Obengefreiter down on his back hard. Hot needles ripped into Dietrich's neck, and he felt his blood explode through the wound in a burning-but horrifically thrilling-torrent Holden mested in his ear, but Dietrich could hear only the waterfall rush of blood thunder in his head. The thunder drifted away like Russian tanks in the mist, however, and Therich realized he was shivering from the impossible cold that gripped his boneshe was dying. That's when the Generalmajor pressed his fios against Dietrich's and spit in his mouth. Dietrich's world exploded in a scream.

WATER FEND

HLMEIER Oxk

ATA AUREL FUNDS

It is a grave tragedy to die young so we pray, "May we be sufficiently ripe before we are eaten up by death..." -Baba Ifa Karade, Odu Ethics of Edi: The Handbook of Yoruba Religious Concepts

We are Trimisce....

What a bucket of shit\! We were united for as long as it took Tiece to Embrace his first progyny. After that, all bets were off You'll also hear the clans salk about Enoch and how we all existed "as one," like some Disney take on Carites. Christ, Enoch was Cane's petting zoo filled with monals and nothing more

You think you know the Damned. You don't know shit. What you're about to lear isn't a lesson, it's a correction. Forget the ankle-grabbing Carthaginians or the imperial glory of Rome; they died for a damn good reason. Our history has little to do with the mundane world and everything to do with the Trimisce We've called Fiends for a good reason. Face it Brothers and Sisters in Caine, that's what we are. It's time you understood why.

\-The Eye, priest of the Seven Hands pack

TZIMISCE LEXICON

Learn these terms well, for many Fiends remember their usage even in the modern nights.

Azhi Dahaka: Azhi Dahaka is Persian for the three headed dragon of the demon Ahriman. To the Tzimisce, it is the Metamorphosist's Holy Grail, an enlightened and

ultimate state of being, possibly brought on by extensive use of Vicissitude.

bogatyri: "elder valiant champions," or a reference to Trimisce's quest-knights.

boyars: nobles or nobility.

knezit a lesser landowner than a Trimisce voivode. Knezi supplied the main fighting force against the clan's is a title for any Trimisce who makes claim to nobility. As elders during the Anarch Revolt. In the modern nights, it such, it is no longer as respected as it once was.

and spirit magic.

koldun: Trimisce spellcrafters who employ elemental

manse: a Tzimisce aristocrat's keep or place of power from which he niles. In modern parlance, a manse may simply be an opulent (or especially morbid) haven.

szlachta: although the specific rerm means "gentry," szlachta are soldiers, spies, bodyguards and protectors of the Trinisce. Modified to serve, these ghouls are tough, smart and deadly.

tirsa: land or domain.

voivode: typically, a Trimisce landholder or lord, the term is strangely nebulous. Trimisce of any significant

CHAPTER ONE: A RABLE OF FIENDS

9

power or territorial holdings often use this title, though young clan members shy away from such epitaphs.

vozhd: a fading practice among contemporary Trimisce, whd are lobotomized amalgamations of many lesser ghouls. Through Vicissitude and koldanic rituals, the ghouls become one entity with the simple duty to maim and destroy whatever stands in its way.

zadruga: "joint family," whereby all the relatives of the ruler live together under strict familial bonds. Also, the ancient name for revenant families, still used tonight by elder I zimisce.

zudo form: a Trimisce's monstrous form, brought on through anadvancedunderstanding of Vicissitude. The Fiends employ this shape in battle or to intimidate their enemies.

THE PROGENITOR'S LEGACY

As told by Tinus Villicent, consultant to the consistory So you wish to know your past, back to the Eldest's part in this divine dance? It began in Enoch, the city of Caine's making and his attempt at reparations to the Almighty. He had already sired thrice in a fit of loneliness and watched his blood scatter further into the nascent clans. Perhaps he foresaw the inevitability of his actions, but if he didn't, then \[Trimisce\] itself certainly noticed.

Regardless of their claims and popular outsider ac- counts, the Eldest and, thus, its childer emerged from between the harlot legs of the Tigris and Euphrates and not the Carpathians. In Enoch's early nights, when skel- etons of builder's wood served as the city's crude battlements and the Great Flood echoed in the distant millennium, Caine had just Embraced Ynosh the Lawgiver, the first of his childer. Ynosh, also known as Enoch, nearly swallowed by the howling of his heart, sought to rid himself of chaotic impurities that he believed bound him to the Beast. Without the tethers, the Beast's grip would weaken, and it would perish.

Through effort and force of will. Ynosh focused the most protean and primordial seeds of his flesh and spit them into a mortal vessel-Taimisce), a magician and seer of some repute. Ynosh intended to kill the Eldest as carrier of his accursed seeds, his most wild and fierce aspects. Instead, the Eldest emerged intact and not the feral Beast Ynosh feared. In a fit of compassion, the Lawgiver spared the Antediluvian, while reasoning out the error of his assumptions. Certainly, the Beast howled in both their hearts, but the Eldest was not the monster Ynush anticipated, at least not visibly

To its sire's surprise, the Eldest suffered no greater avarice or degeneration than that of its siblings. Already strong, it possessed a fluid nature and perception and controlled flesh

like living clay-full of potential within the sculptor's hands More so, the Eldest realized it held no anchored physical identity. Like quicksilver, its countenance flowed from one mask to the next. Ynosh, in his attempt to excise his own weaknesses, transmogrified the Beast's marks upon his body and spirit into physical form, but the Beast also brought with it gifts like intuition, whim, expression, imagination and, most importantly, growth. Tzimisce, whether one or all, bore these successfully.

The Eldest counted itself among the first Antediluvians, though it remained apart from them. In its eyes, the other Cainites stagnated in development. They possessed no potential to grow or become greater than when their sires Embraced them. The Eldest, on the other hand, an oracle in its mortal days, expressed the gamut of evolution's whims with wondrous flourish. It became the yesterday, now and tomorrow of humanity's progress, becoming instead of foretelling. It saw where destiny intended them to go. Caine's childer and grandchilder, however, possessed no such promise. Mortals grew stron- ger, while we remained stagnant or grew weaker. Eventually, mortals would rule, forcing the Damned to hide in their shadows. That was inevitable.

Conversely, the Eldest sensed the change in itself and in other Cainites, one of minute metamorphosis goaded by the Beast. At first, the Eldest's thirst allowed it to sap from the necks of mortal and beast alike. Then, its thirst demanded more. No longer satisfied with one vessel or a score of herds, the Eldest longed for thicker and richer blood; it knew only its progeny would eventually satisfy it. The Eldest realized the burden of drinking blood would only worsen with cach decade. Eventually, the thirst would preclude the blood of animal vessels and that of mortals. Only the infanticide of progeny could sustain the Eldest, and when that time ended, the Eldest itself would perish.

Distraught over its tethered existence, the Eldest spent a mortal's age in seclusion and meditation, shifting

THE AVATAROF CHANGE

Azhi. Dahaka, Dracon. Illuyankas. Dracula and Leviathan; all dragons. You wonder why this beast in particular factors so heavily in our mythology. It's simple, really. Since humanity's infancy, dragons have plagued its legends. The kine feared these great ser pents, but to the Trimisce, they represented grand change. Dragons are harbingers of transformation at the edge of chaos and forever in motion with spiraling and sinuous forms. It is not their appearance that appeals to us, but their potential for chrysalis-and beyond. They are living embodiments of a change we have yet to truly realize.

CLAMBOOK TRIMSCE

10

and flying through shapes of mortal and legend alike, secking out a form free of the accursed thirst. It studied the scroll that once gifted it with spellcraft, hoping to find answers within its fading mortal gifts. It mattered little, however, for the thirst came of the Beast, and it drowned all considerations. The Eldest could not escape, for while it changed forms, it could not change its essence. Cruel fate deprived it of that one saving grace mortals possessed: adaptation as a tool of survival. LEAVING ENOCH

Unlike its growing flock of cousins, the Eldest had no interest in guiding the mortal masses or glorifying Caine's name. More so, it did not aspire to protect the kine, not when they were both food and canvas to it. The others frowned when the Eldest demonstrated how easily it played, wove and laced their flesh and sinew like yarn on aloom. They bemoaned its gifts after it twisted \[Nosferatu's\] flesh into the hideous mockery of beauty now shared by the entire clan. They secretly consorted with it as \[Torea dor) had done to earn her uncanny elegance. The Eldest existed among the unimaginative, while its siblings \[Brujah and Mekhet played shadow games with mortals, delight ing in their own cunning and agendas.

The Eldest knew of the kine's potential and grew angry that the others stubbornly defined themselves in mortal terms without understanding humanity's greatest strength, mutability. Only it appreciated kine as both meal and inspiration, and thus, only it deserved humanity for itself. The Eldest wished to delimit itself according to its destiny, as opposed to what it might be now, and mortals were key to that expression. The Eldest shifted through physical forms easily, but it lacked that final adaptation to save it from its thirst, its Beast. To that end, the Eldest abandoned Enoch, knowing its answers lay in the primordial world, where Caine possessed no influence and where mortals were not protected like lovers or herded like sheep. It needed to witness humanity's struggle for survival and even be responsible for humanity's hardships. Only then, the Eldest believed, would it understand what it lacked to escape its fate.

The Eldest journeyed the lands before humanity named them, following where its atrophying gifts as seer nudged it. It first ventured east, to the birthplace of the sun, where it cursed Kartarirya with unlife. It Embraced not from loneliness (in itself, it had all the company it wished), but because it needed vessels through which to explore the infinite possibilities and forms of adaptation. With Kartarirya, the Eldest discovered its ability to share its progeny's senses. Thus, in each of its offspring, the Eldest bestowed a multitude of curses beyond damning them with unlife. It divested in them a portion of its mutable spirit in the form of a sacrament, its own flesh. Its

ARANT

This is bullshit. Are you telling me we're actually jealous of mortals\! Fine, we're still looking for that pure seed of creativity that allows for true growth, but this defeatist attitude is totally Camarilla. Do we even know if this "seed" actually exists, or is this another Antediluvian ploy to keep our wheels spinning\! We're Damned Brothers and Sisters... why the hell are we wasting time with "evolution?" We don't grow\! We decay\! We're fucking dead\!

\-The Spine, abbot of the Seven Hands pack

vitae hid its essence, which granted the powers of flesh- shaping and bestowed the Antediluvian's childer with the ability to make what they would of their physical forms. In turn, this bond allowed the Eldest expression through each of its most-gifted childer. The Eldest secretly became legion-fold, allowing it to take host in chosen descendents

and reap the knowledge of their exploration.

On the Eldest's return journey through the Fertile Crescent, it took a second progeny in Galled, a tribal chieftain, to monitor the events in the Enoch. During its subsequent journeys, however, the Eldest discovered the tribes of humanity thinned in the western forests, thus depriving it of sustenance. It a fit of hungered frenzy, the Eldest revealed the last of its malignant curses when, from leagues afar, it consumed Gallod inside out. The sacra- ment that bestowed unlife and allowed the Eldest to take root in its progeny also allowed it to devour its childer. scouring them out like an undead consumption. This is the clan's greatest curse, for should the Eldest fall to the Beast's thirst, then it will devour its childer from afar like an unseen demon.

KUPALA

Having learned its lesson from Gallod, the Eldest gathered tribes of mortals during its travels, so that it would never want for vitae again. Along its journeys, it Embraced those who best fit its own questing spirit. It made a childe of Yorak in the forested foothills of the Carpathians and Byelobogin the northern wastes of Europe. Along Africa's coast, it took a warrior named Demdemeh, who subse- quently vanished into the primordial African heartland to pursue his fate; whilst in Cypriot isle, the Eldest welcomed the creature known only as the Dracon into the fold.

The world may have been open to the Eldest, but it eventually favored the lands of Yorak, deep within the Carpathians' bosom. It did not know why the mountain chain proved so alluring, but this domain entranced the Eldest with its siren call. It even returned to studying mortal magics again after a century of disuse, even though its gifts remained a pale shadow of Cainite potential. To

CHAPTER ONE: A RABELL OFFENDS

11

PLANTING THE SEED

A warning to you Sabbar Timisce. Within in us all is the Blood of the great sire itself. It grants us a most mutable essence coupled with the greatest responsibility. We are Trojan Horses for our master, and if you ever attain a new understanding of our existence, the Antediluvian may rise within you and take form. This is not a loss, but a blessing, for you are returning to the gestalt existence of One Flesh that existed before the Eldest made you or any of us. You are blessed to return into the whole. The other clans breed like a disease, but we all come from \[Taimiscel. That is why we claim no real fealty to Caine, who did no more than doom mortals with a Kiss. That is God's curse and not Caine's gift\! The Eldest willingly created us of its own flesh and endows each of us with its essence. Where do you think the fleshcrafting art comes from? It is \[Timisce\] sharing its wisdom with you. Perhaps that is why some of our more ancient members have abandoned the mutable way. They know the art but are fearful of it, lest they stir the slumbering Ante- diluvian within their breast.

00

the east, Enoch still flourished, and its host chikder re- mained close enough to touch Caine's shadow. Europe was arena to the Trimisce alone. Hence, the clan knew these domains as its own before others did. It spread across the Great European Plain that stretched from Eastem Siberia, across the Urals and the Volga Basin to finally touch the virgin shores of the Atlantic. The Taimisce chose their lands well, for the tribes spreading west used the European Plain and Danube Basin to disperse across the continent. In particular, the plains south of the inviolable Pripet Marshes and those north of the Pindus Range became the twin arteries for kine tribes moving through the region. The fist of the Carpathians provided a chokehold on the traffic with the Pindus Mountains in Greece and the icy shores of the Baltic.

The Trimisce "tithed" the mortal flood flowing past them. All was not blest, however, for the Fiends did not claim sole kingship over the lands. Lupines, still potent from the chaste wilderness, fought the clan for every forest corner and mountain peak. As powerful as the Trimisce were, they still suffered greatly. The Lupines even harried the great Antediluvian itself and threat- ened to rout the entire clan back to Caine's feet. The Lupines could not deter the Eldest, however. The Trimisce progenitor felt an affinity with the Carpathians, for something within them touched upon its atrophied gifts as mortal seer, empowering its dreams once again.

The Eldest refused to abandon whatever whispered to it while it slumbered, and eventually, learned how to speak to the spirit of the mountains, the great beast known as Kupala.

Kupala and the Lupines were enemies from the most ancient of times. The Lupines eventually entrapped it within the Carpathians, verdant forest grew up around it. Now Kupala wished for release and spoke to the Eldest through its dreams. The spirit of the land offered its hand in allegiance against their common enemies in exchange for the Tamisce releasing Kupala from its prison deep within the Carpathians' spine. The Antediluvian agreed and spent the next year exploring the mountain's forgot- ten crags, while Kupala taught the Eldest magic it thought lost following its Embrace. The Eldest, in turn, passed the lessons on to its most powerful childer and used them in the great congress that freed Kupala itself.

The Lupines fought hard and would not allow Kupala easy escape. In the twisted cavern where the demon lay, champions of the Lupine clans fell upon the Antediluvian and its fleshly brood. Eventually, how- ever, the Trimisce triumphed when Kupala broke free and fled. The demon-spirit did not escape completely, however, for it had been interred in the mountains for so long that it remained bound to the soil. Kupala could not retire to the courts of the spirits or to whichever hell it once claimed as home. Instead, it took the Carpathians as its new domain and shared its existence with the Tzimisce. The region's Lupines, while still formidable

in the centuries to come, never recovered from this

devastating blow. They lost the lands they sought to protect and watched Kupala's black blood twist the soil and forests.

THE LEGEND OF KUPALA

You wish to know of Kupala? Very well, but you will discover a price in the telling. Such is always the case with legends. The whispering spirits rell me that Kupala numbered among them, but it possessed the power to blight all a surveyed. In the days when Caine still suckled at Eve's teat, it fought the Lapines repeatedly until, finally, their most potent shamans trapped it. They surrounded it from the north and south, and gripped the earth with their terrible claws. They peeled the lands back like onionskin, forming two great walls, then clapped them together in one mighty heave. Their herculean effort formed the Carpathians and the Alps and trapped Kupala deep within their heart like two clasped hands holding a fly. Thus it remained, until ITzimisce\] found Kupala centuries later.

CLANBOOK: TZIMSCL

12

FLOOD, CURSE AND EXODUS

While the Tzimisce prospered and continued to watch the mortals mill about beneath their mountain peaks, all was not well in Enoch. Caine's childer re- belled against him, just as he had done against the Almighty, and reddened the streets with their blood and that of others. Then, in the Almighty's divine act of retribution against mortals, the Great Flood engulfed the world. In Europe, it was no different; the mighty rivers that fractured the land invited the Deluge across such low-lying platus as the Danube Basin, the Po Valley and the Rhineland. Those who survived the swift rise in waters fled to the highlands. Mortal and Cainites alike sought refuge on higher and higher grounds, turning the Carpathians in particular into an island ark ruled by the sovereign Trimisce lords. The Fiends extended hospitality to their new arrivals, taking in payment a sacrifice of one child from each family. To show their compassion, they rarely took the first-born son. Instead, they claimed the youngest for feast, experi ment or servitude. In some cases, Trimisce voivodes claimed entire families from the larger tribes. Thus came the indentured servitude that would eventually give rise to the revenant families.

Following the flood, the Fiends noted the passage of mortal tribes under the influence of solitary Gangrel and Nosferatu from Enoch. The new tribes refused to pay fealty to the Fiends and drifted through the Taimisce's mountain passes without offering amends. The Tzimisce claimed preeminence over the region not unreasonable consid ering that they ruled the land in the centuries before the fall of Enoch. They alone freed Kupala from its prison and kept the Lupines at bay. The intruding Cainites, in their arrogance, held that the world and all mortals came of Enoch and were, thus, by right, theirs. They could go where they wished, and that included the domains of the Trimisce, whom they'd rarely encountered.

When the floodwaters receded, the Trimisce lost vast domains to new mortal tribes who rushed into the void and took territory once held by Fiend-indentured families. The Gangrel were of little consequence, since they wandered and rarely stayed in one location long enough to threaten the local blood-stock. It was the Nosferatu and the occasional Malkavian patrons who proved difficult. The Fiends dealt with these interlopers and their servants harshly, whether through mortal tribal skirmishes or torture. They littered their borders with still-living forests of bodies impaled on bone trees or fleshcrafted messengers to the backs of their horses before sending them riding back to their masters.

The Trimisce eventually realized they couldn't slaughter everyone journeying through their domains lest the mortals unite against them. They allowed their

cousins passage through to the westem lands thick with tribes so long as nobody broached their territory. Other Cainites recognized the Trimisce claims to domain, but only for the while it took the warring clans of the Second City to call Caine's anger upon them.

Caine's curse took the Trimisce by surprise. Their dealings with the soil-bound Kupala, as well their terri torial nature, became the clan's anathema when the curse forced them to sleep upon their native soil for true rest. Even the Eldest nearly perished in the journey back home to claim indigenous "dead water" from its birth place. Its return to the Carpathians, however, heralded a greater flood of mortal herds and Cainites who had left the Fertile Crescent in shame following Caine's edict. Knowing they faced a threat to their territories, the Timisce fortified their domains and fell into isolation- ism. As a unified front, they might have survived both mortal and Cainite claimants to their territory. Di- vided, however, they allowed their brothers and sisters to fall while protecting their own havens through harsher measures. The Eldest was the sole tie the clan's members had to any others of their bloodline. Self- evolution, like the quest for truth, proved a solitary path for many. The Tzimisce ruled from their isolated manses their feet. The Antediluvian, however, knew a time like tyrants over the mortal communities blossoming at would come when its clan would drift apart like flotsam Already, its childe Byelobog had retreated into the Pripet Marshes while Yorak meditated deep within the Carpathians, taking counsel directly from Kupala itself. THE ELDEST VANISHES

An addendum by the Prince of Paupers, priest of the

Bloodfoot pack

I completed my interrogation of Silas, a Salubri antitribu believed fallen with the remainder of the Sacrifice Covenant pack of New York. As we've sus pected, the Salubri antirribu are privy to information that we've only suspected until now. Our eldest Cainites

KOLDUNIC SORCERY

We speak of Kupala and claim our kolmic rites stave off its infestation. We say it quiets our sleep when we rest in its soil. Hal Our sorcery is of Kupala, surely, for that spirit is sovereign over all others in our cursed homeland. It hounds those who know not its craft, hoping to drive us to it. And driven we are. We learn its spells and its way with spirits to earn tranquility. Our knowledge of koldumic rituals is not a bulwark against Kupala; our rest is not a victory achieved. It is the demon's gift to us for being good and blind little sheep.

CHAPTER ONE: A RABBLE OF FINES 13

always claimed that Tzimisce) itself went into torpor shortly after Caine's curse against us, but we lacked a reason, given that Yorak's historical treatise was strangely incomplete. We now know why. Through Silas, one of the Salubri antitribu's premier historians, I've uncov ered the following. Although some claims lacks a degree of credibility. I include them for the sake of the bishops and their superiors. It is not my place to judge.

The Salubri, once healers, saw the formation of their warrior sect through the efforts of Samiel, their first knight; this much we know. Samiel, in turn, launched a crusade against "the forces of black magic" and Cainites tainted by the seed of heresy. From what I gather, someone betrayed us to the Salubri. Samiel learned of the Eldest's bargain with Kupala and deemed the exchange infernal. The "great war" the Salubri spoke of was not against the mythical "Baali" (if they even existed at all), but against us\! Samiel and his band of 15 (or seven-Silas is truculent) warriors made their way along the foot of the Carpathians, remaining hid- den among the mass of mortal tribes streaming into the European continent and raiding the occasional Trimisce stronghold to uncover the Eldest's haven. Along the way, they secretly slaughtered our kind, mistakenly identifying our szlachta for demonic familiars and using that as irrefutable proof of our concourse with Hell. Silas' tale, unfortunately, mixes legend with fact liber- ally, making truth all the more difficult to uncover.

According to Silas, Samiel and his knights attacked the Eldest in his haven. After fighting past his "legions of fiends and devils," Samiel brought a blazing sword to hand and slaughtered the Eldest with "righteous fire." The Eldest, in a final act of defiance, smote Samiel by tearing his skull from within his head, leaving but one knight to recount the rale afterward. The Salubri later realized their mistake, if they made a mistake at all, and quietly claimed Samiel died fighting the clan's eternal enemy during their great war. Obviously, while some portions of the legend ring true, especially Silas' de- scription of the Eldest's haven and the servitors that Samiel fought, we know the Progenitor survived long enough to fall to Lugoj's fangs. While it is possible that Samiel attacked the Eldest and injured it enough to place it in torpor, Samiel did not destroy the grand Fiend itself.

DRIFTWOOD TZIMISCE

by Bashtani Koudye of Tripoli

Lambach Ruthven is fairly righteous, but part of me

thinks he's been smoking crack out of babies' asses. I got a

CLANBOOK: TZMSZE

14

THE ELDEST'S FATE AND THE CHILDREN OF DRACON Rise, Child of Dracon, for I speak of our Progenitor The Eldest did indeed perish during Sariel's attack, but what is destruction to a creature of its power? The Progenitor survived through each seed that it implanted within its progeny upon the Embrace and within the progeny of its progeny. It no longer needed its own form, for it could take shape within each of us, ifitso wished. On Cyprus, the Dracon felt the Eldest awaken and grow within his belly. The Dracon took care to nurture the newly risen Progenitor. After birthing it, the Dracon smuggled the fetal Antediluvian back to the Carpathians and placed it under the Methuselah York's care, deep within the bowels of the mountains.

While the torpid embryo slept and grew in the befouled soil like a seed, the demon Kupala whis pered into the Eldest's ears, as it had done with Yorak. To what avail, I know not, but few can withstand centuries of discourse with demons and come away untouched. Suffice it to say that our understanding of koldhnic ways became far greater. As the soil and flora rotted further, our familiarity with the demon's paths grew effortless. That is why the Children of Dracon do not tap the fetid magics of Kupala. That was not a gift of \[Timisce) itself and came only through a malignant demon whose touch never left the Romanian soil.

look at hus precious journal when he wasn't around, and there's sume wild shit in there. He claims he saw Lugoj Blood-breaker commit Amaranth on the Eldest itself before the Antediluvian went ahead and pulled a fast one on him. That means that Lugoj, who's in torpor somewhere in the Carpathians, is actually Trimisce now. All right, cool, whatever. Later, Lambach tells me the Eldest's a mutated fucking patch of out-of-control cannabis living beneath New York and spreading through the sewers like a weed. I know, to you this sounds like moist and runny shit, but you got to respect the fact that we can do some scary-ass stuff Lambach's tale means one of two things. One, he took a big hit off that baby butt, or two, the legends our sire told us were muc.... What\!\! You know which one. I'm talking about where Tzimisce can manifest in any of us and turn us into it. If that's true, then there's at least two Timisce Antediluvians running around right now, and we're doubly screwed. What? What d'ya mean "Be a good lad"? What the fuck are you talking.... Holy sh

\-Kaleel Bratovitch, Taimisce kennel master, deceased With the Eldest under the sleep of ages, its childer withdrew from the world. The Carpathians and the east

ward Volga Basin remained Fiend territory, but the clan still pursued isolationist agendas and private vendettas The Antediluvian's fear that its progeny would surrender to wholly esoteric pursuits proved correct. Even Yorak and Byelobog retreated into their respective realms and had little to do with one another. With safer passage available around the Carpathians by way of the Mediterranean Sea, Greece and Rome flourished into expansive empires influenced by the other clans. Rome witnessed some Taimisce patronage under the Dracon, while other Fiends trickled out from the black deeps of the Eastern foresta The fact remained, however, that the Carpathian Cainites isolated themselves from the world. This is why they lost territory to their rivals.

First Mycenaean, then Hellenistic Greece ruled over portions of Europe, but they never advanced to ward the Carpathians. The Romans, in turn, expanded their empire further, prostrating themselves at the feet of the mountain chain. Even they stopped from ascend- ing her slopes, however. From the Celts to the Slavs and Goths, the Carpathians remained untenable. This isn't to say the Tzimisce stayed dormant or idle during this period. In truth, they ruled the land as near gods and came to influence the surrounding tribes with growing proficiency. As individuals, the Trimisce accomplished much, thanks to the Dracon, Shaagra and Radu, but as a clan, they rarely worked together to any real conclu- sion. Yorak's disinterest in leading the Fiends as the regional Voivode among Voivodes didn't help either.

The eldest of the region's Trimisce, Yorak assumed the Voivodate following the Progenitor's fall into torpor. He stayed in the caves where Kupala whispered loudest and concentrated on other matters, such as enslaving tribes of Slavs, Celts and the occasional Thracian clan for his experiments. He fully believed in Azhi Dahaka, the ecstatic state that the Eldest itself sought to un- cover. He spent his lifetimes within the labyrinthine Carpathians, exploring the world through his mental Disciplines, even though he'd long ago abandoned interest in the outside realms.

dral of Flesh. Rivaling the Hanging Gardens of Babylon Over the centuries, Yorak constructed his Cathe and the Christian monuments to come later, this mag num opus to pain and suffering became the center of Metamorphosist thought and worship. Yorak built it over the course of centuries, through docens of caverns and with thousands of victims. For a while, the Trimisce

pursued their agendas and paid little heed to the world growing on the horizon's edge. When Yorak and the others learned that Rome owed its glory in part to Cainites, however, they realized they could no longer lurk in the shadows like the Lasombra. Certainly, the Roman Empire did not expand beyond the Danube

CHAPTER ONE: A RABBLE OF FIENDS

15

Basin, but empires would contest the might of the Fiends. In turn, these new sovereignties would bring with them Cainites hungry for the clan's domain. As it was, the Romans were uncomfortably close because few Trimisce did anything to halt their incursions.

Yorak wisely realized that politics and kingly mat ters were far outside his expertise or skill. Both the koldim and he preferred their studies to affecting mortal affairs and stemming Cainite incursion into their lands. Instead, he chose to Embrace the influential members of the regional tribes and rask them with that which did not interest him.

SHAAGRA: THE NEW DIRECTION

Yorak's decision to strengthen his brood's domains in the region came at a fortuitous time. Change gripped the known world. To the farthest East, the Hunnite Empire fell to the Chinese at the start of the Christian calendar, sending the Huns into nomadic exile. They swiftly spread west, so that, by AD 375, they arrived in the Ukraine, where they displaced the Ostrogoths and Visigoths with their lighting-fast raids. The Ostrogoths petitioned Em- peror Valens for settlement in Moesia, but when he demanded they surrender their wives and children, the inevitable clash resulted in a stunning Roman loss. The story later repeated itself with the Visigoths.

THE CATHEDRAL OF FEESH

It was magnificent. Thick stalagmites and stalac tites formed the pillars, with bone trusses over which limestone grew and formed an osseous mix of liquid architecture. Either skulls with their eyes and surrounding musculature still intact-or cartilage- thin enough to behold the sea of viscera and floating organs comprised the walls; scores of ghouls moist ened the eyes so they could blink properly. Even more revenants conducted the ritual tattooing by drawing charcoal-dusted threads through their victim's skin with bone needles. Later, Yorak and his childer would carefully slough the flesh from their screaming sacri fices, treat the fresh canvas in a preservative and stretch it over the windows like a mosaic. The cathe dral had so many wonders, like the blood pool lined with sitting victims whom you could use as chairs, the pillars of grafted bodies, the walls of mouths that sang a wailing chorus as you passed them or the open gallery where corpses remained impaled on stalactites.

Such wonders. It's a pity the modern nights could not support such beauty openly. Truthfully, nobody knows where the Cathedral of Flesh is anymore; it's apparently vanished. Where once it stood, I'm told, rests naught but a gaping hole.

CLANBOOK: TEMISCE

16

Meanwhile, any hope that the Roman Empire could rise from its ashes died with Constantine's ill- chosen heirs. Rome was on the decline, and its resident Ventrue, Toreador and Malkavians had lost control to a squabbling host of Cainite detractors and to the unlikely strength of a Hebraic cult. The city's eldest fled in droves, sending Europe into a decaying spiral. The periphery of the Roman Empire crumbled and regional Damned panicked. They knew the Germanic tribes prepared for massacre and pillage, and many sought diplomacy with the previously isolated Trimisce. For once, the other clans treated the Fiends as potential allies and not an Eastern frontier threat.

The Taimisce, in turn, noticed the flood of human- ity streaming through their northernmost borders. The tribes and federations of Hun-displaced nomads fought and intermingled, as was expected, but the Gangrel of the steppes and disenfranchised Brujah accompanied them. Yorak met with several Gangrel chieftains and promised them unmolested passage through the Carpathians' Tihuta Pass; in return, they promised to incite warfare against the Roman settlements along their routes. Yorak sought to regain the territory the clan lost with the arrival of the Ventrue and Malkavians. The spread of the tribes turned into a wave that tainted everything ahead of it. In the wake of that chaos, Yorak sent in Tammisce to reclaim their former estates.

Shaagra's Embrace heralded the Taimisce's golden age and centuries of the Fiends' dominion over Easter Europe. Yorak understood that the wandering Hun, Slavic and Goth tribes would eventually become the new landholders of whatever territory they settled. It had happened before with the Scythians and Hallstatt in the centuries preceding the White Christ's birth, and it would happen again, given Europe's virgin expanses. Theoretically, by influencing the tribes now, the Trimisce could establish themselves as the preeminent clan of the region.

The Slav Shaagra came from the Vroi tribe and ruled as their goddess, leader and mystic. Her people fled westward after her tribe had suffered under the harsh ministrations of a larger tribe. When they reached the Carpathians, Yorak took notice of Shaagra. She held concourse with potent spirits and possessed a beacon soul. Yorak sensed Shaagra's potent magic and the supernatural creatures she entertained as counsel. Shaagra commanded strong respect from her people, and possessed the vision as shaman to appeal to the Tzimisce's sense of Azhi Dahaka. Yorak accepted her for

the Embrace, but he did not take her.

Although he was the voivode of the region, other Trimisce Methuselahs shared Yorak's age. While Byelobog remained aloof, both Triglav the Three

Headed-who earned mythological reverence among the regional tribes-and Lambach Ruthven wanted Shaagra for themselves. Yorak, however, chose Triglav as second in line among the local Fiends and allowed him the Embrace. Lambach would never forger that slight, and its repercussions would certainly echo down history's corridor.

Shaagra never knew her sire. Once educated in the craft of the Trimisce and forced into the blood oath, she and her tribe followed her granddaughter and favored ghoul. Libuses, into the Danube Plain Traveling in the century-long wake of marauding tribes and bands, the Vroi eventually settled upon land that would become Prague, the westernmost point of Carpathian Trimisce influence. It would serve as a border against Western interests and become one of many flash points in the Tremere-Tzimisce conflict. Shangra herself slept in fitful torpor, growing steadily insane in the blackened soil of Kupala's violation. Her Embrace, however, pre- cipitated the Trimisce practice of claiming stock from noble families and tribal leaders to better influence the region's mortals. This brought a new breed of Fiends into the clan's hierarchy. Teimisce like Radu, Wladymir Rustovitch and Dracula provide but a sample of the dosen who played the parts of nobility and engaged in games of political intrigue against the regional Ventrue and Drujah at the time better than their stres had. The clan broke its mold of cackling fiends and incompre hensible Metamorphosists and emerged from its isolationism, albeit fractured and of opposing agendas THE ZADRUGA

Eli Dragsky, Priscus of Moscow

Sorry if I'm not poetic, but I'm a scholar, not a writer. You'll also note that I'm against the concept of revenant families for a variety of reasons. We all know that, for centuries, Taimisce such as York and the Dracon bound entire families into tortured slavery under the euphemism zadny, or "joint family." Convenience first forged this practice because it proved easier to raise servants in an environment of horror than to train continually relative newcomers to accept what they saw. Eventually, these ghouls, whether through the haunted soil of the Carpathians or from centuries of weather ing the blood bond, managed to pass their half-Damned state on to their children, thus forming revenants. Yorak's chiller spoke of ancient ghoul families predating the Great Flood, though their fates before Christ's birth are a little nebulous. Given the deformities that we're seeing emerge from our own families, however, I think they simply became too genetically polluted to breed anymore. Sorry, but if the Bratowitches are an indication of what we can expect, then they pose a danger to our existence. They're becoming wild and unpredictable, the suicide/murder rate among the Bratovitches alone is

CHAPTER ONE: A RABBLE OF FIENDS 17

BOGATYRI

Before the revenants, the szlachta, the vozhd and the ghouls came the bogatyri, the Eldest's champions Yorak asserted the bogatyni were not kine, Lupine or Camite. Although they appeared mortal, they claimed lineage from Meru, a mystical mountain in India and supposed birthplace of the Ariol (what occult-scholars would later call the mythical Aryan race). Metal refused to cut their unblemished skin while stone and wood foreswore never to house them. The bogatyri came into Tzimisce's) service when the Great Flood washed a band of them against the Carpathians. In return for the Eldest's hospitality and succor, they offered their allegiance.

Each bogatyri possessed askin pouch holding the flesh of the Antediluvian-when they fought for it,

staggering, and more than a few revenants have accidentally attracted hunters and, sometimes, the media to our doorsteps They're walking time bombs, and frankly, that's the least of our worries from them.

the skin pouch crawled over their faces and gave them the countenance of the Eldest. Their forearm bones extended into blades, while their tongues darted out like daggers. When the Eldest fell to Samiel, the bogatyri scattered to the four winds to find it. They never returned, even after Yorak sent them messages that the Dracon had carried the Eldest to term.

Lambach believes the bogatyri split and now guard the different manifestations of the Eldest itself. Certainly, Lambach saw someone of inde- scribable purity watching over the Eldest (in its guise as Lugoj) and again caught glimpse of another beneath the tunnels of New York. Certainly....

Basarab retained their nobility and land holdings during their existence as revenants. Unlike the other families, they later married into Sackler stock and forestalled the onset of defor mity. As warriors and strategistsper excellence, they could have served the Sabbat as near equals, had "great" Dracula himself not been born Basarab and Embraced. The mortal Dracula murdered a number of us in his quest for immortality and greater influenceover regional politics. He even forced his way CLANBOCK TIMISCE

The modem revenant lines trace their history to the tribes of Slavs and Celts once living in the Danube and Volga basins. The eldest known family, the Basarab, claimed joint lineage from Dacian royalty and Roman legionnaires. The

18

into the clan by threatening Lumbach with destruction. Because of Dracula's actions, we hunted down the entire revenant line and destroyed them to the last ghoul, just to make a lesson of them. If you think this was an isolated incident, think again. This isn't the first time we've Embraced revenants, and it isn't the first time they've threatened to betray the clan or sect. We often fail to realize that these creatures possess a dangerous degree of knowledge and many even hate us We've made slaves of these families for centuries, and then, we Embrace them and offer them stakes? Just how foolish are we?

The Bambaren't the only fallen lines-what about the Danislav\! These former kin to the Lupines betrayed and destroyed Count Florescu before we annihilated them. The Krevcheski were our greatest traitors. As clockwork masons and siege engineers, they broke their caths and allied them selves with the luthsome Tremere. Wethought we destroyed them during the Renaissance, but now, I'm hearing conflict ing rumors that some still serve the Council of Seven or that they've betrayed the Tremere as well and formed a minor bloodline of sorcerers skilled in both Thaumaturgy andkoldionic ways. What about the albino Khazi who served the "White God Byelobog' We've heard continued allegations that one of them betrayed their master to the Teutonic Knights, which weakened him enough for Lugoj to diablerize him later. Unfortunately, we can't confirm this because the Khazi died at the hands of the Teutonic Knights during the fighting or in subsequent Crusades by the Christian Church. How many more families must betray us before we smarten up\!

Look at the revenants that survive into the new millennium; they are a fucking pitiful lot, numbering the Bratovitch, Grimaldi, Obertus, Zantosa and Oprichniki. The hedonistic Stantovitch (Zantosa, if you prefer their modern incarnation) may have been

great spies once, but the nights of noble Poland and Bohemia are gone. Even then, they were too indepen- dent, now, they're close to extinction and useless in the modem nights. That makes them desperate and danger- ous. The Bratovitches have always been our dogs of war, and unfortunately, they're acting like it too. Only the Italian-born Grimaldi and the scholarly Obertus have managed to serve us loyally, while still staying hidden. Still, you don't think the Giovanni haven't been trying to woo the Grimaldi from us or that the Obertus don't still spy for the Dracon from their nights in

Constantinople\! It won't take much for either family to betray us, you know.

Of final note are the Oprichniki; this lot troubles me: The Oprichniki are the youngest of the revenants, with a history dating back only to the 16th century, during the reign of Ivan the Terrible. This Russian dictator ruled over Oprichnina and used his secret police to ferret out dissidents, detractors and anyone he

00

MILK AND BLOOD

I once witnessed how the revenants blood-tied their own children in service to their lords. The mother, her breasts heavy with milk, partook of her lord's vitae, then fed her child. As the infant suckled at her teat, she withdrew a knife and made a tiny incision just above her nipple (amid a sea of scars). Her blood flowed freely over her breast and into the child's mouth, while it lapped the muddy mixture of the two

considered an enemy of the state. Called the Oprichniki. these mortal agents sowed fear and discord throughout the countryside in a campaign of legitimized murder. Eventually, the insane Ivan even turned his men against each other. We were wise not to Embrace this syphilis- induced madman (leave him for the Ventrue\!), but we did bring the surviving Oprichniki under our sway After all, the horrors of Ivan's torture chambers had already inured them to violence.

My problem is this; the Oprichniki served us well until Communism usurped White Russia. Afterward, they stayed behind the Iron Curtain, hidden from the Sabbat until the collapse of the USSR. Since then.. they've stayed in Russia and Romania, serving our "comrades" within the Oradea League (essentially, the non-Sabbat Tzimisce). That means we don't have the full loyalty of these ghouls, and that makes them poten- tially dangerous. Additionally, we might suffer swift reprisal from the Sabbat should it learn we kept this line hidden from the sect. They pose a danger to us, one we should eliminate immediately.

THE REBELLION

by Devin and Alison Markbury of London

Before the Sabbat came, the elder Trimisce always abused their authority over their progeny. Being a Fiend meant surviving 100 hells and 1,000 degradations, just to claim some measure of autonomy. Unfortunately, from the time the Ventrue under Nova Arpad came to influence the Carpathian nights, the elder Teimisce thought of their progeny as nothing more than nocked arrows ready for the flight. The inter-clan conflicts alone claimed their score of neonates, to say nothing of the Tzimisce-Tremere enmity.

\-Velya the Vivisectionist, Cardinal of the Land Beyond the Forest

Cainite scholars say Patricia Bollingbroke started the Anarch Revolt under the name Tyler and led her band of berserks against Hardestadt of Clan Ventrue in 1395. Actually, the Anarch Movement began earlier by afew centuries. The appearance of the Usurper Tremere

CHAPTER ONE: A RABBLE OFFENDS 19

sparked a hidden war against us for control of the mystically infused Carpathians. Both sides wanted a slice of Kupala's power, and the only way to gain that was to squat on his territory. Despite our efforts to stop them, the Tremere forged alliances with the Ventrue and other clans to dispose of us politically. Transylvania, at this point, fell into seven "unofficial" domains that the clans claimed as theirs. By 1197, the numberdropped to four, with three realms left to rot without voivodes. Although we still held the greatest power over Transylvania. internal hickering pretty much kneecapped our efforts. I'm surprised we stayed in con trol at all. The Tremere hooked up with the Arpad Ventrue, who claimed lineage from the Magyar tribes that invaded the Carpathian basin in AD 948. Staking land in the heart of Trimisce territory. Nova Arpad proved a pain in our arse and outplayed us politically. Of course, when diplomacy and alliances failed, the Tremere bushwhacked our keeps with their Gargoyles. Our el ders countered with their szlachta and even sacrificed a thrall or two to save their arses. Cainite ash rolled with the Carpathian mists in those nights, and the lucky

neonates survived a week.

Internally, we screwed ourselves over bad. A host of Trimisce marked their territories in blood and tolerated little interference from their own kind. Radu, Marelle, Rackolina and Durvag played gods in their domain and felt no obligation to help each other. Yorak didn't care enough to help the situation, and when he did, he nominated Vladimir Rustovitch as his "successor," whatever that meant. The other Trimisce ignored Rustovitch's shiny title Voivode among Voivodes be- cause it didn't mean shit without Fiends like Yorak or Byelobog to back up the claim. It's also noteworthy that he never claimed that title for himself - somebody called him soivode, and it stuck, but not with the recognition of the older Fiends. In the middle of all this, naturally, the Nosferatu master mason Zelios caught us by surprise after he built a series of castles across Transylvania. The first of them, overlooking the pre- cious Tihuta Pass in the Carpathians, acted as a floodgate against the Mongol tide sweeping through the East. We didn't realize it at the time, but the castles actually formed a geomantic web of ley lines that tethered the castles together and trapped Kupala

Actually, I say we didn't know, but some of us did. Zelios had the support of the Trimisce Methuselah, Dracon, who'd been butting heads with his Carpathian brethren since settling in Constantinople: The Dracon, a principle founder of the city, regularly spoke out against Kupala and our use of koldumic sorcery. What started as civil arguments and debates broke into open conflict between the Carpathian Tzimisce and the

FINAL REVENGE

You want to know why I'm laughing? Cause this shit's hilarious. I'd been hearing rumors saying that some Trimisce pointed the Tremere Goratrix toward the Embrace. At first, I wondered why somebody would be that stupid, then it hit me: it was pure genius. The Tremere took their first blood from a Tzimisce before Tremere himself drained Saulot. That means the entire clan has portions of the \[Trimiseel in them. When the Eldest emerges from torpor, both clans are going to be eaten inside fucking out... And who says we don't have patience or cunning when it comes to revenge?

Obertus flock in Constantinople. Matters finally hit rock bottom when the Dracon Embraced a young man named Gesu (who sired his own brother Symeon, thus priscus). Prior to all this, Gesu had nightmarish visions leading to the Embrace of Myca Výkos, an esteemed

concerning the "evils of the land" (read: Kupala), and upon "Becoming," he fell into an odd torpor. The Dracon blamed Gesu's condition on the Balkan Trimisce and left Constantinople to attack his Carpathian cous- ins. In a fit of fury, he bushwhacked Triglav the Three-Headed, an accomplished koldun, and following a fierce battle that decimated the tirsa, deprived Triglav of his namesakes. The Balkan Tzimisce retaliated by destroying Byzantine-Akoimetai monasteries outside Constantinople. This is how the Obertus revenants found themselves as lock, stock and property of the entire clan. The rift between our koldum siblings and the Children of Dracon never healed. Oh, they're civil to each other now, but I don't want to be there when these two factions meet in an isolated alley.

Meanwhile, in the mortal world, where the vast Roman Empire failed to conquer, Christianity boldly marched. The northern lands of Denmark, Norway and Sweden fell to the martyr's religion. The local Trimisce, such as the Fiend-witch Gunnhild, found their hlaut blood magic of little use against the papal champion Olaf Tryggvason. Christianity was the most effective siege engine Cainites had ever encountered. The To- reador borrowed or influenced its artistic and architectural development. The Ventrue embraced the language of the litany before all others had and assumed positions of power when the Church converted king- doms and standardized the state language to Latin. The Lasombra also touched on the Church's hierarchy from the top down, while the Malkavians inspired heresies with their conniving tongues. To add insult to injury. the great Byelobog nearly fell to Teutonic Knights who braved the Pripet Marshes, and weakened the

CLANCOS: TOMSCE

20

Methuselah enough for Lugoj Blood-breaker to take him down later on.

The Mongols arrival in 1241 didn't help much either. Like a tide, they swept through Eastern Europe and back out again in just a year, leaving Transylvania broken and easy pickings for other Cainires to claim. The Mongols shattered our holdings throughout the region and nearly destroyed Darvag Groeny, the Butcher of Rus, who remained in Torpor till the rise of Baba Yaga and the fall of Communism. The old guard changed, especially after the attack on Byelobog, and the young Trimisce had good reason to hope their indentured servitude was near an end. Their masters, however, seeing the same changes happen to the world, tightened their grips over their thralls. It didn't take long before violence erupted.

Lugoj Blood-breaker, the first voice of Tzimisce dissent, traced his lineage back to Noriz, the so-called Corrupter of Legions. Although Noriz strode across Moldavia, conquering the tirsas of rival Cainites, he built his ladder to power from the spines of his childer and grandchilder. After he avoided destruction once too often, Lugoj and his siblings vowed never to be anyone's pawns again. Unfortunately, the Taimisce anchored their loyalties with a million different hooks, and freedom often took planning.

It took another century before the time was right, if not critical. Tyler, leading the Anarch Revolt, attacked the Ventrue potentate Hardestadt, while the Ottomans (who brought with them the rapacious Assamites) are away at the borders of Eastern Europe. The Inquisition ensured that Western Europe fared no better and claimed scores of young Cainites. Then news came that the Lasombra, under the leadership of Gratiano, had not only joined the anarchs but also managed to diablerize their Antediluvian as well. Young Tzimisce had already spent decades searching the Carpathians for the rare and profane bloom known as Kupala's sacred fire- flower, an artifact that Fiends hoped would help shatter their ties to their elders. When two Tzimisce, Lugoj and his ally Velya the Flayer, finally found the sacred fire- flower, they gathered on Kupala's Eve and broke the blood-oaths hanging over everyone's heads. The Trimisce revolt was under way.

THE ANARCH REVOLT

If you want to know more about the Anarch Revolt and formation of the Sabbat, talk to Lambach Ruthven. He had a hand in both events and isn't as likely to rip your head off as Velya and that psychotic babbling harridan on his back. Lambach, the product of ancient Carpathian nobility, is the guy you have to watch out for though. The older Sabbat consider him a goof and

screw-up, but frankly, I'm not saying that to any Fiend who's been around longer than most organized reli- gions. Sure, Lambach plays the fool, but I think he's playing other folks even more. He attended Kupala's Eve when the Trimisce broke the ancient blood oaths and made everyone equal. Not once did he consider himself the enemy, and in truth, neither did the anarchs. Lambach never abused his power or esteem as Methuselah. Frankly, without his vitae, many Fiends doubted they could have broken their blood ties. Lambach was like the catalyst of the entire process.

While the anarch Teimisce took their sweet time getting into the revolt, when they did, they did it with both feet. Oh, did l also mention they did it disorganized as hell?Once free of the blood oaths, the young Trimisce decided to try out independence at breakneck speed and scattered in a dozen different directions. Yes, I know Sabbar history recounts the glorious war in more rever ent terms, but the truth is, we acted like wild teenagers more than Fiends. I'm surprised the Trimisce elders

MAD RAMBLINGS?

Iknow what history says, but I don't believe its lies so easily. I knew the sycophant Lugoj, and he served his masters eagerly. He claims Velya and he discovered Kupala's treasure in a forgotten and desecrated moun tain monastery. It grew through the crack of the chapel floor, and degenerate creatures, once monks, later Trimisce and then Kupala's minions guarded it jeal- ously. Lugoj claims they barely escaped with their unlives. Lies. Lugoj played the lackey for his master, the Eldest, and found Kupala's heart only because the Eldest so guided him. I tell you this because Yorak shared the truth with me ages ago. Had Lugoj and Velya followed the flower's winding veins through the crack of the monastery's floors, they would have chased it into the deepest intestines of Yorak's domain, into) his Cathedral of Flesh

Why foster this duplicity when it eventually de- stroyed a score of Taimisce, you ask? Because Kupala's sacred "fire flower" was, in fact, a portion of the Eldest's newest fum, a precursor to the horror dwelling in the sewers of New York. Don't believe me, but ask Lambach what he witnessed in the sewers, and watch him stutter. The Eldest allowed Lugoj to take ofitself so that it could shatter any former alliances shared by its progeny. It imparted its seeds in new generations of Trimisce, binding them to it alone when it so chose. Ironically, the Timisce shared of their blood in a subsequent rinus, thus turning the Sabbat (as opposed to the clan alone) into the Eldest's harvest. And when the thing beneath New York grows hungry, whodo you think it will summon to feast upon?

CHAPTER ONE: A RABBLE OFFENDS 21

didn't slap down the entire movement, but they weren't any better organized and didn't take the revolt seriously enough. They did later, when the anarchs attacked several Carpathian keeps in the span of a few months and burned down those they couldn't breach.

Trimisce elders retaliated through the various av. enues open to them. Some bribed the anarchs to look the other way, others defended themselves behind walls of szlachta or used their revenants on suicide missions to eliminate particularly truculent childer. Again, the efforts to fight the anarchs proved too little, too late, too scattered. At this point, Mehmet II laid waste to Constantinople, the Christian bastion. During the Trimisce's civil war across Europe, they ignored the real-world problems thundering around them. The Turks threatened Europe, and only the continued struggle along the eastern borders kept them at bay. Whenever the Christian and Muslim empires collided, however, the anarchs stepped into the chaos and rode the may hem. Unfortunately, they substituted one master, in the form of their sires, for another, in the form of the Ventrue and Assamites.

The Fiends rebellion did more to destabilize the region than any Mongol horde hadeverdone. They foolishly allowed lesser and often weaker nobility to escape retribution whether because howars bribed them or skiddenly shifted allegiance: Meanwhile, the anarchs destroyed many of the potent elders who often protected the clan's ancestral domains against the depredations of the Tremere and Ventrue. The final blow to the Trimisce came when both Byelobog and the Eldest itself fell to diablerie. Yorak had already reputedly fallen, though the culprit remains a mystery, while the Dracon was nowhere to be found. While this seemed like a victory at the time, theith is by destroying our strongest members or driving them into hiding, we made it easier for the other clans to walk all over us Sure, the Ventrue and Tremere say we should be held accountable for our crimes, but the fact remains that they benefited more than anyone else did.

By this time, the anarchs suffered a series of defeats at the hands of the nascent Camarilla and its potent elders. The Inquisition swung its scythe with renewed vigor following the release of Malleus Maleficarum (the so-called Hammer of Witches) and reaped season upon season of Cainite crop. Meanwhile, we discovered that our peers and even elders were ready to listen to reason, if only because over the last four centuries we'd lost many of our Carpathian demesnes. Pushed back at every front, we did poorly in the struggle against the now-legitimized Tremere; we squandered territory and szlachta on the Ventrue and watched Christianity destroy our pagan followers. Eastern Europe served as nothing more than a bulwark against Oriental aggression, and any Trimisce still in "power" was the lord of flotsam scattered across a huge ocean. Worse

yet, the Camarilla had appropriately risen like a phoenix from the Council of Ashes that tried to extend its influ ence into Transylvania and mandated a policy of Masquerade.

The final blow came at the Convention of Thorns in the year following Columbus' discovery of the New World, when the anarchs surrendered their grievances and the Assamites accepted the blood curse. The terms of acquiescence would have seen Transylvania fall from the Trimisce and into the hands of their rivals, the Tremere. Was it any wonder the Convention of Thorns alienated us and the aristocratic Keepers\! I even think the Camarilla did this deliberately to isolate the two clans because we dared to destroy our Eldest. In the end, it didn't really matter; we never would have joined the Camarilla for various reasons. Our elders hated the Tremere, and the very fact that they stood as equals in this new alliance served as an affront to us (not to mention that joining the Camarilla meant giving up territory and their rights as nobles). Conversely, our young members fought too hard and for too long to abandon their cause.

Fortunately for us, the same predicament bothered the Lasombra. Because we both destroyed our elders with such abandon during the revolt, that made us Cainites non gratae in the esteem of the Camarilla's clans. A coalition of Trimisce met with as many Lasombra on the island of Mallorca, and after arguing over statement of purpose and ideology, we agreed to support one another. While the Convention of Thoms' delegates signed their legacies away, we denounced the Camarilla and formed the nu scent Sabbat in defiance of both the seven-clan alliance and the mortal Inquisition.

THE SABBAT

When we first started this little venture known as the Sabbat. I think we romanticized our struggle a bit too much. We played the rogue and renegade generals seeking to wrest the kingdom from the control of the evil emperor. If any solemnity came into play, it was thanks to the surprising recruitment of some of our former enemies, the elders. Not everyone signed up, but when one of the eldest Fiends-Rustovitch-joined the Sabbat, he brought with him the respectability of the entire clan. Slowly, our war against the elders ceased, and both sides came to an understanding. Those who did not join us generally excused themselves from our affairs and paid for their independence by turning their revenant families over to the Sabbat cause. It was a small price to pay for their safety, and we benefited greatly from the Bratovitch's kennel masters and the Obertus disquieting skill with occult matters. In return, we didn't bother the elders anymore. This was not

CLANBOOK: TEMISCE

22

LAMBACH'S PURPOSE

\[Taimiscel saw something in Lambach Ruthven to consider him worthy of Becoming, Lambach has reputedly seen the Antediluvian twice in recent times; once when Lugoj "drained" it and a second time beneath New York's streets. Both times, he survived, even though he saw things he should not have. The question, however, remains: Why? Unbe knownst to anyone, including Lambach himself, he is the Eldest's chronicler. He is the eyes and ears of his master and documents the clan's actions while the Antediluvian remains in torpor. Occasionally, when danger is about to befall Lambach, the Eldest imbues him with a portion of its strength or power to allow him to escape and run. Lambach will survive) until the end times; he will be the last Trimisce to fall to the internal scourge of his sire's million-fold teeth. Until then, he is truly immortal: the Eldest will not let him perish.

solidarity so much as an acknowledgement that we had to stop bushwhacking each other.

Meanwhile, the Sabbat-aligned koldun and Metamorphosists understood the Trimisce's importance in this new rebellion. It the Lasombra offered structure and cohesion to anarchs, then the Trimisce had to strengthen the alliance in some capacity. While this never manifested as an open statement of purpose, various Fiends did direct the Sabbat (through their packs) toward the spiritual nature of Cainite existence and twisted the Inquisition's piety into the sect's new standard. When packs met, they exchanged ideas and rites, and soon, the more popular practices proliferated throughout the Sabbat. The Befouler pack of Worms helped foster mass Embraces, a precept where no one vampire claimed patronage over another. The Carpathian War Dogs introduced a nascent form of Creation Rites (what they called "blood baptisms"). where, like the old axiom that an entire village raises a child, each neonate is childer to the Sabbat as a whole. Other Trimisce packs introduced various Trials by Ordeal and War, the two methods by which Fiends settled their disputes in centuries past. They borrowed from the notion of survival of the fittest, and this idea played heavily in Creation Rites as well; the Embrace did not guarantee subsistence. Soon afterward, we re- fined the Vaulderie and ensured its practice throughout the Sabbat. Even later, we fostered the new Paths of Enlightenment, those contemporary and mutable guide posts in a quickly evolving world.

Following the Convention of Thoms, the Camarilla foolishly believed they'd settled the anarch issue. In the following 50 years, however, we, along with the Lasombra and the newly christened antimribu, launched a series of raids against "Kindred" holdings. It was nothing short of war, and while the Camarilla reeled from blow after blow against the Masquerade itself, we still lost territory to outsiders, especially the barbaric Assamites. Finally, the Camarilla grasped the nature of the conflict and turned the tables on us. Using their extensive mortal influences, the Camarilla besieged Transylvania with diplomatic censure, trade embargoes and mortal poli- tics. Tzimisce lords suddenly found themselves bereft of kine allies or the support of neighboring villages that once feared them. We prided ourselves as being above mortal concerns, so we certainly didn't expect the blow to wound us so grievously.

Domains that had belonged to us for millennia in the counting now went to others. Several of us fled the Carpathians to the northern wastes of Scandinavia. We were not alone either. The Camarilla had routed the century, Europe was a new place, and if we had any Sabbat across Europe. By the beginning of the 17th

doubts as to our loyalties, they evaporated when we bid our havens farewell.

THE SABBAT'S STRUGGLE

By Andrea Leehom, priscus

Dracula? Ook, honey, and where's the rest of his friends? You know, Booberry and Frankenberry? Girl, I'm just too damn funny.

\-Mr. Misster, pack priest for the Sacred Band

The Sabbat, still young by the measure of Cainites, found an unusual ally in Gunnhild and her progeny who'd survived in the Baltic lands for centuries. Accus tomed to the lap of Carpathian luxury, we did not realize that in other places, we did not master all we surveyed. This provided us with the catalyst to stop seeing the liberation of Transylvania as our sole end within the Sabbat. Until now, we, as Carpathian Tzimisce, be- lieved ourselves the sole contributors to the sect, but with our exile into Scandinavia, we encountered our forgotten kinsmen.

Gunnhild, the "Mother of Kings" and Fiend-witch. Gangrel Vikings centuries ago. Originally a Finnish witch. and her brood had found acceptance among the wayfaring

advance of Olaf Tryggvason before her Embrace. Al- she married Eric Bloodaxe and fought the Christian

though her struggle and use of blood magic eventually failed to stop her people's conversion, she survived well

CHAPTER ONE: ARABLE OF FINDS

23

CLANBOOK: TEIMISCE

24

c/obs 9

THE PUPPET ROOM

It's in some mansion just outside the city. It invited my pack over for a private nas one night, but I'm telling you, I'm never going back. Grating covered the entire ceiling and they never showed us the second floor. In fact, it stayed upstairs as well and spoke to us through the grate. I still remember that foul smelling shit that dribbled through the metal lattice. The servants who lead us around were all connected to umbilical cords like animated pupper strings that snaked up through the ceiling. When it came time to feed, we were supposed to tip our heads back and accept whatever dripped down. Fuck that, we bolted.

past the fall of Uppsala, the sacred royal lands of Freya herself. Because of Gunnhild's standing among the local Gangrel who still called upon Odin in battle, the Sabbat entered Scandinavia with little difficulty, and we gained valuable allies in the fight against the Camarilla.

During our internment in the frozen lands, the Scandinavian Trimisce introduced the Sabbat to the notion of the Jomsvikings. These warriors once ranked among the Fiend-witch's entourage, but Gunnhild lost them in the war against Christianity. Still, the notions of Jomsborg, the training camp erected by the Danish King Harald Bluetooth, proved sound. The Jomsvikings swore a blood oath (as the Sabbat had done) and followed strict codes, rigorous training regimens and various rites to strengthen solidarity. While the notion of a "Sabbat training camp" did not work well with the nomadic existence of our sect, new ride could effec- tively incorporate the training of fledglings. In fact, each pack became a training ground for recruits; so long as one member survived, the Sabbat survived. Thus far, we'd done well to introduce various auctoritas ritae for the benefit of the sect as a whole. We failed to make the packs cohesive beyond the Vauldenie, however. With the help of koldunic and hlaut rituals, and the precepts of the Jomsukings, the ignoblis ritar evolved. These rites later compartmentalized the entire Sabbat movement, allowing the sect to function like the mythical Hydra.

Despite Gunnhild's hospitality, we knew the Sabbat could not remain in Scandinavia. While the Turks prepared to sate their gluttonous appetites on the Tremere stronghold of Vienna, the Sabbat knew this provided the brief distraction it needed to escape its frozen home. We looked elsewhere and cast an eye to the New World.

THE LAND OF PLENTY

Again we stood at the prow of the Sabbat while history's storm raged about us. Young sect members fled to the New World, hoping to earn the freedom that their elders and the failure of the Anarch Revolt denied them. Certainly, many Lupines plagued the Americas virgin expanses, but at least the Sabbat could fight that threat. The sect could not wage the so-called revolution in Europe openly. Instead, the Camarilla played games of policies and inuigue deftly, frustrating the sect by depriving us of supporters and eating away at our terri tories. Many antitribu left first, followed by young Fiends.

The elder Trimisce could not stand leaving their ancestral homes behind, regardless of their commit- ments to the Sabbat. Instead, they encouraged us, the younger Fiends, to traverse the Atlantic first and offered us large retinues of revenants. It was the least the European Tzimisce who didn't want to risk the journey could do. This shortsightedness cost us, however, for we couldn't trust revenants loyal to masters hundreds of miles away; this allowed a fair number to escape into the wilderness. Still, those of us who survived the two- month journey by boat scattered across our new home and carried the Sabbat initiative with us. It was a vibrant and violent world, from the native conflicts to the eventual colonial independence. We were there for it all, and we even formed several packs to help rout the British Cainites during the American Revolution. Heart ened by our victory over the English and hidden Ventrue agendas, the Sabbat in Europe helped foment the insur- rection that toppled the Paris aristocracy. Meanwhile, we, who once prized our isolation in the secluded Carpathians, realized we preferred the burgeoning American cities. (At least, the young Fiends did - some elders still clutched with ever more desperate talons to their crumbling castles and inbred boyars.) The wilderness crawled with Lupines and potent spirits, and the modern cities bore more in common with our sprawling keeps (as well as providing stable food stock).

REMEMBERING GUNNHILD

Christ, I remember that old witch. She scared the hell out of me. I remember when she invited us to watch her perform the rista om the blood-

eagle. It's called that because it looks like you're carving eagle wings into the victim's back. What you're actually doing is cutting the ribs away one by one down to the loins. Not enough to kill you, but enough to keep you alive and howling. After remov ing the ribs, the torturer reaches in and pulls out your lungs. That's when you slowly choke to death.

Unfortunately, while Cardinal Radu and a few other elders crossed the Atlantic, the younger Sabbat who'd made the effort to colonize it considered it home and protected their domains fiercely; I didn't blame them either. After claiming we're all equal, Radu and the others stepped in to take advantage of our hard work. The older Sabbar, Fiends included, suddenly discovered sect mem- bers no longer welcomed them in this so-called "Land of Opportunity. "To further aggravate the matter, most cities were less than a century old and not large enough to hort Sabbat-Camarilla conflict swiftly degenerated into the a coven of Cainites looking to strike out on their own. The sect's first civil war, with young Trimisce leading the

charge. The Americas should have been our hard-earned prize for the work we put into settling her. Instead, we fought over space and resources in struggles reminiscent of contemporary gang warfare. Mortals became precious commodities when feeding thinned the herds. Oh, the history books say that cholera and smallpox decimated the smaller cities, but we did not help by overfeeding and the Camarilla stepped in and entrenched itself in the serving as plague carriers. While we fought one another.

Camarilla pushed us out of the cities, forcing us to take United States even further. Such a slap in the face\! The

refuge among the Native American tribes or in the precarious wilderness.

While the Purchase Pact settled the internecine fighting, the damage had already been done. The Camarilla took root in the United States, with only New York

remaining firmly in Sabbat hands. The Sabbat fled into Mexico, Canada and the southwest United States, where the Camarilla held little influence. Ironically, the Trimisce found shelter outside the cities, with groups of subjugated mortals. While we fed from the enslaved populace brought over from Africa, our strongest and youngest packs re- mained hidden among the southwestern tribes of Apache, Navajo, Zuni and Hopi Indians. The peaceful Hopi, in particular, treated our kind as manifestations of their warya, their Kachina spirits. We, in tum, played the parts of their avatars. We became the White Ogre who de- manded food lest we steal their children. We played the Badger as healer and advisor, the Vulture who brought them winds with our koldumic rituals, the Eagle who guided them out from the Underworld of their creation myths, and most importantly, we assumed the role of the Star Whippers, their chief Kachinas and sacred wisemen. In turn, they never questioned our appearance as wuya and protected us while we rested in their kivas (subterranean chambers below each house that they thought were por tals to the Underworld).

This arrangement served us well for decades and influenced how we treated pack members and conducted our rituals. Later, we strengthened our hold in the region

CHAPTER ONE: A RABLE OFFIENDS 25

during the mortal Civil War. The Dineh, more commonly known as Navajo, earned the attention of the United States when growing conflicts between settlers and the natives turned violent. After the Union drove Confeder ate forces out of New Mexico, they launched a campaign of repression against the Apaches and Dineh. For the latter tribe, it culminated when Union forces blocked them up in Canyon de Chelly and starved out thousands of Dineh natives. The army then relocated them in a forced march to the Pecos River Valley, leaving the canyon's pueblo homes abandoned. Several Fiends moved into Canyon de Chelly with their revenants, turning it into a Tzimisce enclave. It's remained such since then, even after the Dinch returned to their ancestral homes.

The Dinch are currently the largest North American tribe, with 28.803 square miles allocated for their reserva- tion. Because of this, the Camarilla exerts little influence over the area save through its limited connections on a federal level. Meanwhile, the Tamisce existing here con- stitute the largest gathering of Fiends in North America. Don't mistakenly believe them full-fledged Sabbat, how- ever, for the Tzimisce here are mostly Dineh now and have little to do with the sect's conflicts. They do maintain regular discourse with Mexico's Cainites and California's few anarch Trimisce, but they keep to themselves mostly.

INTO THE

20TH CENTURY

By Salem Justice, Bishop of Miami

Ever hear of the Boys from Brazil? You can't tell me that Doktor Totentanz or Landulf didn't try cloning "Der Führer." I hear you guys have a secret camp in Ecuador where old Naz doctors sit around all day getting served by blond Aryan boys in Speedos. C'mon, you can tell me. Did you guys clone Hitler? At least tell me you gut Himmler, man.

\-Boo, member of Atlanta's Lawdogs pack

When the Sabbat earned its name, many Trimisce remained neutral in the conflict, despite threats to their unlives by overzealous sect Fiends. These independent Trimisce forestalled any oaths of sect allegiance by surren dering the first-and second-born of their revenant families to the Sabbat as a show of good faith. Everyone realized such promises bore little weight in reality. Still, many young Trimisce knew they could ill afford protracted conflict with their elders. They settled on the gift of revenants and left their oldest members to rot

Landulf II earned his legacy in the 9th century as a black magician in the Arthurian grail legends. Named the third most important man in the kingdom of Emperor Louis II, he controlled land from Naples to Calabria until the Vatican excommunicated him in AD 875. Rather than suffer under Carpathian influence, Landulf II

CLANBOOK: TZIMISCE

26

FLESH MASKS

The Sabbat could claim responsibility for the murders, patroun, but the truth is, nobody in Mexico City knows who's committing them. From what I understand, it's a vendor who wears and sells color- ful masks to people in stopped cars at traffic lights. As soon as a person puts the mask on, it turns out to be alive and digs into his head with bone hooks. It chews the wearer's face off, then spits out the chunks through its mouth. The mask controls the wearer, forcing him to rampage through the streets in an orgy of violence. I really don't know why this Taimisce is hiding though. I know a few Sabbat who want to shake his hand.

06

allowed an African Fiend who claimed lineage to the Methuselah Demdemeh to Embrace him. As Tzimisce, Landulf maintained the castle Calot Enbolot in Sicily. where he studied kolmic sorcery and earned a reputation as a torturer among the local populace. Landulf II fostered these false accusations, if only to keep the curious away from his haven. Like his peers, he swore fealty to neither Transylvania nor the Sabbat. Instead, he consorted with North Africa's Cainites, and after the Convention of Thoms, enjoyed the protection of the Giovanni. The Sabbat and Camarilla could not reach him.

Landulf reemerged from hiding in the twilight of the 19th century when the Germans Order Walvater of the Holy Grail used the swastika, his heraldic device, as their standard. While the symbol itself appeared in other cul- tures, the combination of anti-Semitism, occult rituals and the belief in a race of "pure" humans proved too enticing to ignore. Landulf encouraged the society and helped foster its atmosphere of racial superiority by claim- ing members as ghouls. Truthfully, Landulf considered onekinesect as inferiorasthenext. Whether the GOWHG spoke out against Jews or Catholics made little difference to him. Their drive for purity and thirst for occult enlight

enment interested him more.

Although Landulf helped, the German Order and its successor, the infamous Thule Society, needed little to fan the flames of their fanaticism and blind hatred. By the time the Bavarian elite adopted the GOWHG's principles, Landulf and a small number of Tzimisce had ensconced themselves in the organization. Most other Fiends, already sensing the growing fines of hatred even before WWI smothered Europe in choking poisons, steered clear of the conflict. Humanity's proficiency with war had grown considerably, and each conflict not only thinned the herds, but threatened the unlives of regional Cainites. Wars and Inquisitions proved the only storms capable of cowing the Damned. Meanwhile, the list of bigoted mortals grew, a deficked kine munk by the rume of

Adolf Lanz demanded imprisonment and sterilization of "socially inferior elements" and anyone who indulged in sexual relationsoutside oftheir race "Anotherman, Liebenfels, established a temple for his New Templars on the Danube and advocated neo-paganism and the abandonment of Christian- ity. Secret societies and cults proliferated in the Germanic states and provided a handful of shortsighted Trimisce with a new nobility from which to draw members from and improve their own standings.

The introduction of tanks and mustard gestured WWI battlefields into a perpetual night of chaos and smoke-shielded skies. This mortal-bomeGehenna proved little deterrent to the Fiends themselves. Many younger Trimisce slipped deep into the earth when they knew of an approaching battle. When they awoke, they rose from the blood-soaked soil and found themselves in a forest of the wounded or dying. If the Slavic tribes had once provided WWI was a Renaissance of pain and cruelty. The Taimisce an unending supply of victims and test subjects, then

battlefield, forcing mortals to wonder what terrible weapon left many a corpse twisted and sheared right on the

because death had become so bizarre and alien in the new inflicted such cruelty. The Masquerade held, if only

century, thanks to kine advancements.

Meanwhile, in Anatolia, the first of the 20th century's genocide-trends began with the massacre of two million Armenians by the doddering Ottoman Empire. Eastern European Timisce, such as Sascha Vykos, were well in their ghouls, restock their dwindling supply of szlachta and position to pilfer 100 victims here and there to strengthen fill their kennels with new experiments. The Timisce also agreed to create new revenant families, since only four known lines survived the recent centuries. Ghouls such as away from becoming revenants, if the process works at all the Armenian Kindairjan, however, are, at best, decades

Tothe east, the Bolshevik Revolution gripped Russiand sealed the Trimisce behind the Iron Curtain. Truthfully, this proved advantageous to the Old World Fiends of the Rus With the borders heavily monitored and protected, Trimisce such as Piotr Krezhinsky (childe to Darvag, the Butcher of Rus) did not answer to the Sabbat and went about enjoying the new political air of repression and terror.

EARLY AMERICA

World War II erupted in Europe, which goes without saying. Fiends, such as Landulf II and Nazi proselytizer their pant legs rolled up, tarnishing our name by associat Doktor Totentanz, waded into the bloody battlefield with ing with the Nazis and wasteful programs like genocide. Stateside, our clan had an entirely different set of prob lems. Without the crucible of war to threaten their from one generation to the next. The Sabbat, trying to nap borders, the Americans fluctuated politically and morally into the pulse of each generation by Embracing their CHAPTER ONE: A RABLE OF FIENDS

27

youth, discovered that sect members of one generation became anachronisms the next.

At first, America lived up to its reputation as the land of plenty. Immigration into the US saw the arrival of over 450 million European refugees between 1845 and 1914. providing Cainites with a surfest of vitae. Perhaps fool- ishly, we threw ourselves into the hedonism of the Roaring 20s and allowed our numbers to grow unchecked. The sect war with the Camarilla had quietened for the moment, and many Trimisce pursued their private agendas or basked in the festive atmosphere of America's Golden Age. The First World War saw thousands of jobs in northern industrial factories open up, resulting in a large population shift of black Americans from the south. Large communities developed in Chicago, Detroit and Buffalo, with Harlem itself becoming a mecca of prosperity for hundreds of blacks from around the US. Although the Toreador antitribe might proclaim themselves as the only patronsof art, the fact remained that a number of Trimisce shared their interests. Harlem, styled the "New Negro Capital," saw the birth of Afro-centric art forms, including ja This in turn drew many soon-to-be-great musicians including Duke Ellington, Fats Waller and Cab Calloway, Ethnic Trimisce went so far as to sponsor nightclubs or throw rent parties to promote the festive atmosphere and liberal stance toward sexuality (and, naturally, to draw their herds from). Of course, the local Tzimisce often clashed with Toreador over "proprietorship" of Harlem's mortal talent, but the fighting rarely erupted in the open. Instead, it manifested as nightclubs like Gumby's Book- store and the Daisy Chain quietly competed with one another for clientele or in the occasional "gangland" hit.

Unfortunately, the Great Depression saw to the de- mise of Harlem's promise. The government's so-called laissez faire policy gave rise to a disparity between the economic classes (with one percent of the populace wielding 40 percent of the wealth) and upended the social standings of many Tzimisce. A fair number of elders who'd enjoyed nobility and unprecedented wealth in the Old World, suddenly found their assets nearly depleted or gone, while younger Fiends, savvy to the economy of the time, used their mortal influences to jockey into a position of financial security. Still, this didn't help the Sabbat, which prided itself on its independence from mortal concerns. The Camarilla, taking advantage of the thor oughly corrupt administration of President Harding in the early 1920s to buy off key officials and politicians, used their new friends to harry the Sabbat. Police launched daytime raids against our communal or private havens under orders to clear our the squatters, while bankers foreclosed on our assets under the broken terms of forged loans. Wefought back, but remained on the defensive well past WWII.

The Sabbat-Camarilla conflict turned into a paper war, and many old-guard Trimisce, affiliated with the sect or not, could not defend themselves in these forums. Instead, they continually relied on Embracing newer generations of mortals to serve as their vanguard, inad- vertently creating a vast generation gap between them and their progeny. The elders used the young Fiends as their contemporary proxies but not without staunch resis tance. Young Trimisce wanted to explore their own unlives and not be burdened by their anachronistic aires As a result, these neonate Tzimisce gravitated toward the independent-minded Sabbat and adopted its more vio- lent precepts as a means of "threatening" their elders. After all, the Trimisce young did rebel once before in the name of freedom and could easily do so again. WWII'S AFTERMATH

Hitler's rise to power brought a twofold invasion across Eastern Europe's soil- the German advance, followed by the Russian pursuit. When the Nazis stormed the continent, Sabbat Trimisce feared little. They took advantage of the reign of terror and used the chaos to strike at weakened Camarilla holdings. Their prime advantage lay in the fact that Hitler despised aristocracy, thus burring many elder Camarilla Kindred from influencing the re gime. Conversely, the Old World Taimisce fit the description of nobility to the letter. Rather than risk calling down the entire German Wehrmacht, they al- lowed the Nazis to plunder their keeps for trinkets while keeping their havens, true treasure and szlachta hidden.

If the Trimisce suffered little from the Germans, then the Russians offered plenty of misery by comparison. The Red Army fought its battles by saturating their targets for days beneath a barrage of artillery. Then they advanced across the smoldering terrain, dispensing with the remain- ing opposition. The retreating German army fortified itself within the ancient keeps between Russia and Berlin. The most powerful Tzimisce managed to obscure or hide their fortresses using arcane sorcery, but many met Final Death when the Russians shelled their occupied manses from a distance. The torpid Shaagra, one of the eldest of the Old World Taimisce, burned to ash along with Prague. sending shockwaves through fractured Trimisce society.

The havens of many elder Taimisce also fell under Communist rule. Old World Tzimisce had lost much during the war, and Stalin's madness threatened to take away even more. Realizing their precarious positions, the elder Fiends sent envoys to their cousins trapped behind the USSR's borders. Their efforts toward solidarity cre- ated the Oradea League, a mutual defense agreement and statement of purpose (autonomy from the Sabbat) among Old World Taimisce. Ironically, the league flourished because of Communism; Stalin's xenophobia protected

CLANSOOR TIMSCI

28

them from the sect by way of restricted travel, and the Trimisce were reunited with Russian Fiends like Darvag and Piotr Krezhinsky for the first time in decades. By the fall of the Soviet Union, the now stronger Oradea League resisted the Sabbat's bullying without falling prey to its thirsty packs. In a show of solidarity, however, many of the

THE ATRIUM

It isn't bullshit; I've seen it. The old Fiend owns the high-rise hotel and had it built to her specifica- tions. It's posh and upscale, with a beautiful rooftop garden What nobody knows is that the garden site atop a hidden atrium that runs the building's length and is packed with the Tamisce's native soil. She sleeps where it's deepest, far from harm. Supposedly, she's got emergency exits from the atrium into certain rooms. The hotel concierge directs lone travelers into those suites and never registers them as having enrered. The old Fiend uses her... well, I guess they're arms... to snag these guests from their beds and pull them into the dirt with her. Mean- while, the cleaning service steals all their possessions when they clear the room out....

league's members joined the sect as "diplomats," advisors, honorary bishops and prisci in the modern nights. RUSSIA'S FIENDS

Piotr Krezhinsky, a survivor of Ivan the Terrible's rule over Russia, played voivode, while Daryag, his sire, slipped in and out of torpor. The collapse of Czarist rule to the Bolshevik Revolution severed the lines of communica- tion between the Russian Trimisce and our European clanmates. Still, we survived, finding Stalin's paranoid regime much better suired to our collective temperament. While the Brujah focused on their grand designs and aspirations for Communism, Stalin destroyed churches and persecuted the religious. This, in turn, robbed the mortal populace of their faith and destroyed much of what was once holy ground, thus allowing many Damned to act with greater impunity. Meanwhile Piotr busied himself by ensconcing a few Fiends in the Cheka, or secret police, because it allowed us unprecedented intelligence on af- fairs both within and outside the Soviet Union's borders.

By the time the Cheka finally became the OGPU (United State Political Directorate), we had a steady flow of hundreds of unaccounted-for prisoners and victims for our herds from the millions thought murdered and buried in unmarked pits. WWII proved that our clan remained as vultrable as our weakest link: mortals. To prevent an-

CHAPTER ONE: A RABBLE OF FINDS 29

other vitae shortage because of the underfed and win nowed populace, many Fiends maintained private herds for feeding or vassalage should another war ever devastate Europe again. Ironically, many mortals entered these arrangements willingly, because we fed them well and even ensured them some measure of comfort compared to Russia's abject poverty

Additionally, some clever Taimisce also arranged for a handful of small gulag concentration camps and KGB prisons out of the 2000 facdities across Anus Russia wall into the hands of their Bratovitch majordomos. By esti mates, the early Russian regime incarcerated close to 10 percent of its population in the gulags. Vorkuta Camp alone killed more prisoners than Auschwitz, though ad- mittedly over a longer period of time. These facilities became unrestricted havens for the Tzimisce to exist openly without fear of discovery. Unfortunately, as we've often discovered, when there are few restrictions, some of our brethren can take their proclivities to extremes. Conversely, Russia possessed no state agencies to ensure the well-being of gulag prisoners. Thus, the Trumisce still speak excitedly of Tmu Tarakan, the Kingdom of Cock roaches, where prisoners are a diet of their fellow inmates, slept on beds of decaying corpses and drowned in a soup of their own entrails. If this had happened anywhere else in

the world, we would have suffered apocalyptic repercus sions for drawing such attention to ourselves.

Not all Trimisce took interest in the gulags, however. Some young Trimisce found interest with Biopreparat, the Soviet Union's biological warfare initiative. Many of us knew about the Eldest's essence within our own bodies, and the study of bacteriological warfare spurred on argu- ments of whether we could isolate portions of the Antediluvian within ourselves. Piotr lead the camp of Ferb who soudat a way to attack these cancerous invad ers before the Antediluvian awoke. Many also feared that biological programs could devastate our feeding stock if they progressed unchecked. So, to better protect our interests, a number of our brightest members infiltrated the Soviet Union's Ministry of Medical and Microbiologi- cal Industries, a quiet euphemism for their bioweapons program under the Main Intelligence Directorate (GRU). Called Biopreparat, the Russians worked to develop new strains and vectors for diseases ranging from typhus to Ebola. Some young Fiends even played at developing Cainite pathogens that targeted specific clans, blood vinuses that could turn entire populations into our ghouls or even methods of turning viruses into microbial ghouls We insured that nearly three generations of Obertus revenants learned a dizzying array of the new sciences

CLANBOOK: TEIMISCE

30

including biochemistry, epidemiology, virology and mi- crobiology. Soon, our spies found work in hidden facilities at "Rebirth Island" in the Aral Sea and at Solovetsky, the nexus prison camp of the gulags.

Unfortunately, while our ghouls made some advance ments, particularly in the field of recombinant DNA and so-called chimerical viruses, the Soviet Union collapsed. Suddenly scientists, viral material stored in the Moscow Institute of Health, ex-KGB agents and weapons-grade plutonium all appeared on the international black mar- ket Several key ghouls also vanished with their research, sending us scrambling to find them. To date, we've had little success...

TOMORROW'S TZIMISCE

By Jackrabid, ex-templar

Hear about the trailer-home caravan roving up and down the Eastern Seaboard? It's a traveling haven for a Fiend and her entourage of Bratovitches. From the outside, it looks like a caravan of retirees with tinted windows, Florida bumper stickers and Jesus fish plaques. Inside, it's a mobile abattoir and freakshow museum. They're like nomadic serial killers, travel- ing the country and never leaving behind enough evidence to get caught. It's true. It's true.

\-Bartholomew Diggs, member of the Road Kilt nomadic pack.

05

Hitler still lives, or at least his malignant message does. Only a handful of elder Tzimisce participated in the nse of pre-WWII mysticism, but some Fiends Embraced in the post-war era came to see this as the Sabbat's accep tance of the Holocaust. Certainly, these individuals didn't help the situation when they Embraced glatzen ("baldies" or German skinheads) to "continue the struggle." Unfor- tunately, these same fucking Trimisce have supervised a tise in racist Brothers and Sisters in the decade following the collapse of the USSR. The wave of Eastern European refugees instilled venom into the youth of Western Europe who, to this night, remain bitter over unemployment and degrading social conditions. That anger exploded into racial violence, bringing the Taimisce new generations of followers

Among the new breed of Tzimisce glatzen is Weissrarech-White Vengeance-a leader of a Euro pean neo-Nazi pack. She took the time to explain to me this new trend emerging among some of our younger clanmates. She is also childe to Doktor Totentana, a WWII holdover of Nazi "values" and, frankly, an embar rassment to our clan. Although she's barely existed for a decade, Weissrarech's seen Europe burdened beneath 750.000 refugees escaping ethnic cleansing and poverty. The Soviet collapse proved a godsend for elder Trimisce,

who could finally reclaim their former aristocratic mantles and titles within the Carpathians' keeps To Weissrarech, however, Communism's fall brought about Egypt's Elev- enth Plague: the refugee flood.

Weissrarech concentrates her efforts on the dispos sessed population, a group of kine everyone ignores Whether her packsraid slum apartment towers in Marseilles and Berlin, attack West African harvesters in the Italian

THE COMMUNIST LEGACY

The West always knew that Communism made little consideration for environmental concerns, but the full scope of that knowledge did not come to light until after the fall of the Iron Curtain. The USSR turned Bulgaria, Romania, Czechoslovakia. Poland and East Germany into toxic pits. Now, factories spill sulfur into the air, creating acid rain so potent that it strips entire forests of their foliage and branches. All that remains of some forests are blackened poles and mountains topped in sulfuric mists. Mining and smelting operations release clouds of metallic particulate into the air, afflicting gen- erations of children with a variety of lung diseases and mental disabilities. Even after all of this, it is far worse in Romania, where coal strip mining turns the air black thanks to places like Copsa Mica's Carbosin Plant. A thick layer of soot covers build- ings and trees, creating a landscape devoid of colors. It snows black flakes in the evening, carbon par- ticles saturate the mists and clouds, soiling the very sky, and even sheep are of night's hue.

Environmental advocates scream pollution.but the various governments act too slowly. Both Old World Trimisce and elder Sabbat Fiends find their once rich and proud landscapes drowning in physi cal and psychological oppression. Romanian dictator Nicolae Ceaucescu kept his people broken and poor while ravaging the countryside in the name of industry. Now, ironically, the Tzimisce advocate change, if only because pollution taints their herds through cancer and mercury poisoning, while acid rain destroys its fair share of monuments, including the many ancient Carpathian keeps that Fiends still dwell beneath The Old World crumbles away. literally, and the Trimisce once again find them- selves broaching a new arena of experience, that of environmental concerns. Ironically, their opposi tion is a mixture of mortal bureaucratic leviathans (holdovers from the Communist era) with a vested interest in the factories and the greed of Kindred who seem to sing the name of Kupala in their sleep

CHAPTER ONE: A RABBLE OF FIENDS

31

and English countryside or assault Bosnian Refugee Camps in Croatia. Weissrarech brings with her an impressive crusade of young Sabbat Trimisce and antitribu glazen. To my understanding, the Camarilla assigned two archons to locate and eliminate Weissrarech's pack, but they've had little success thus far. The Sabbat, in num, supports Weissrarech's war.

Racism is not the purview of Weissrarech alone. It echoes across the Atlantic in the cries of some American Teimisce. During the 18th century, come packa developed an interest in prejudice after it evolved from religious and ethnic intolerance into scientific" racism. Hatred adopted a new form. Although notions of racial purity and genetic cleansing were older than harlots and tax collectors, humanity learned how to apply rapidly advancing tech- nology toward the industry of genocide. Still, most Fiends remained uninterested in the white-hooded hate-mon- gers who rode into public attention following the Civil War. The Camarilla, duped by their own propaganda, assumed their enemies would relish hiding behind masks and "hangin niggers," but few Sabbat wanted to be around a group of furious mortals wielding flaming crosses.

Advocates of scientific racism later increased their numbers by Embracing a group of rioters from the Detroit Race Riots of 1943. President Roosevelt had issued an executive order prohibiting racial discrimination in facto ries with military contracts. The influx of 60,000 blacks from the southern states looking for work in the more progressive North sparked riots in cities such as Detroit, where 35 people died, 500 were injured and another 500 arrested for the murders of African-Americans. Excuse me, blacks, Fuck Jesse Jackson, not for his skin color, but for his politics, But I'm getting carried away.

I use pack priest Abraham Jensen as an example of a growing substrata emerging within our clan. Arrested during the riots, Jensen claimed membership in the sec- ond incarnation of the Ku Klux Klan, a hate group whose fellowship dropped significantly between the 1920s and its temporary disbanding in 1944 due to lack of interest. Although the Klan resurfaced during the Civil Rights

movements of the 1950s and 60s. Abraham came to see

genetic purity as something that existed beyond the limits of his five serises. He understood how racists could mistake "white" for pure and appreciated the hatred that prejudice sparked. What at first appeared to be a minor movement, however, quickly grew. Many Trimisce believed Hitler's ideals died with WWII, but when a returning American Gl named George Lincoln Rockwell formed the Ameri- can Nazis, the Fiends realized this was just the beginning Cainites, like Abraham, were in a position to capitalize on

these nascent movements.

WWII served as catalyst for the Civil Rights Move ment. After all, if the government could draft blacks in

service to their country, why couldn't this minority enjoy equal rights? Of course, this proved a watershed issue for the nation, with extremist camps forming on all sides of the color barrier. Groups such as the White Aryan Resis- tance and the National Association for the Advancement of White People called for strict segregation, while behind the scenes, more insidious cells formed like blisters. The more pseudoscience justified racism, the more outlandish respective claims became. Some groups adhered to the Nazi principles that the Aryan race originated from the mythic island of Thule. Others adopted a strange fusion of Hindu-Aryan philosophy, claiming civilization's cradle was Aryavarta in India. On the other side of the argument came black militants calling Caucasians an albinoid mu- tation of the African people or "Yaccub's children." A smaller segment claimed that since melanin was a superior absorber of energies, then white people were further from God (the source of all energy) because they were lacking in skin pigment.

Militant Trimisce involved with these movements stayed away from the public marches and press-staged events; instead, they frequented the packed underground concerts of Storm und Drang and Africa X, plying their craft among the thick and angry young crowds. Some Trimisce even allowed events to take place on their private prop erty, immersing themselves in hatred and reaping the guests at the end of the evening. Fiends, Abraham in- cluded, dominate the small cults and cells that search for the purity of their ancestors. These kine willingly undergo any body augmentation suggested by the Tzimisce in the mortals' quest to emulate Tzimisce ideals, leaving the Fiends more than happy to impose their visions of perfec tion. The Blood Brothers formed thanks to such physical tampering and mixing of ideologies. It's why they've all got those fucking bald heads.

MODERN PRIMITIVES

The various hate groups are not the only movements enjoying Trimisce attention. While one group plays on racist ignorance, another is far more interested in ap proaching those of genuine Metamorphosist inclination. We find that in one mortal subculture of particular inter- est: the modern primitive.

Modem primitives are displaced individuals who find difficulty reconciling their existence in these neoteric nights. Where once tribes and villages provided these people with a sense of belonging and spirituality, they now stalk those circles dealing with sex fetishes and body alterations (a feeble substitute at best). They haunt places like Greenwich Village's underground flesh trade and the darker alleys of Castro Street, where S\&M circuit parties. and piercing and branding clubs push the limits of pain tolerance and impart some sense of accomplishment. The

CLANBOOK: TRIMISCE

32

phenomena of body alteration and pain tolerance have grown over the last 20 years. Experts attribute the move ment to the need for a simpler existence like that found in primitive cultures, where one celebrates adulthood with tests and rites of passage. To these individuals, tattoos, brands and piercings are not only decorative, but also trophies of endurance and perseverance. It is this state of mental alteration that shamans and sadhaus experience, the point where pain becomes irrelevant and even neces sary to induce insight and euphoria. We Trimisce. long acquainted with such principles in the search for transcen- dence, occasionally encountered mortification cults worshiping the various Cainites-turned-gods. Modem primitives, however, represent a new breed of mortals, willing to endure extreme purgation as a show of strength in life.

Through these rare and often marginalized individu- als, we have uncovered a segment of Western society deliberately searching for torture and unusual punish- ments to better test their own limits. They use torture as a test of mettle and view scars as the ultimate badges of honor. More than the trendy teens who go for the tribal tattoo around their arms, these individuals seek a primi tive state of existence in which suffering defines humanity. Amusingly, most mortals also expect their sessions to last an evening and no more. We, being far more patient than that, draw out their ministrations over months. We Em brace those who survive or have the fortitude to endure week and after week of torture and still return for more.

No longer limited by the constraints of flesh, some of our new childer seek to redefine their very existences by mixing their unlives with neo-native and Asian mysti- cism. They partake of vision quests using pain as their drug, hoping to find their totem animals. Others apply the Taoist quest for biological alchemy and personal perfec. tion through meditation and internal alteration. Whether they realize it or not, these neo-pagans, body artists, modern primitives and human pincushions are fast be- coming the new Metamorphosists among the latter-generation Tzimisce. Their quest for change is genuine, and their own alterations hold deep significance for them. Unfortunately, many slip through the Sabbat's hands because they believe violence serves a function (like a signpost on their vision-road) and simply killing for the sake of killing is an affront to spiritual quests.

DEMDEMEH

By Molly 8, chronicler for the Librarians pack Africa has Tzimisce?

\--Derra, Sabbat flunky

Africa's history is one painted in words, and it is therefore difficult to strain the truth from embellishment.

Ancestors become gods, and the gods are the spirits of everything. As a result, we know little of the African Taimisce, but the nights still echo with portions of their tale if you listen closely. What I know.comes from Landulf 11, the very same koldim sorcerer in league with the Giovanni. Unfortunately, we have no way to confirm his tales, since Africa remains an enigma. While undoubtedly Fiend, the African Tzimisce (or egnan) seem to pursue their own agendas and myths. They consider our presence a slight to their dignity for some strange reason and as easily attack us as bid us greetings.

\[Timisce), the Eldest, deliberately Embraced a mul titude of peoples and tribes when it first left Enoch. It chose Yorak because of her her shamanistic wisdom; Lambach proved a survivor in the purest sense, as attested by his presence in the modem nights; the Eldest took Byelobog, as wild a mortal as the Eldest had ever met, to see how that influenced "the White God's" evolution. It chose Triglav the Three-Headed because he already be- lieved himself adeity; he cursed the monk Dracon because of his introspective and hermit nature. The Eldest allowed the brutal and inhuman warrior Kartarirya to act upon its whims. Demdemeh, however, puzzled the Eldest. As the first African it had ever met, Demdemeh eamed the grand Fiend's terrible attentions. For every harm or injury the Eldest introduced to Demdemel, however, the mortal turned the tables.

The Progenitor would later recall to York and Lambach that he turned Demdemeh inside out, with his organs and bones on the outside and his eyes facing into his head. When the Eldest asked him what he thought of the view, Demdemeh calmly replied that such a fear was nothing, given that all wise men had the ability to see within themselves. Impressed with such a strong mind, the Eldest Embraced Demdemeh and parted ways. Demdemeh returned to the land that would one day be the Sahara, which, in those nights, was still heavy with swamp and jungle and not yet ready to surrender to the encroaching desert. The tales say he traveled among the immortal- tribes of the Sao, Tibesti, those who followed the Kagnand the sun-eyed Rachwezi. Known as a fair and wise shaman, Demdemeh gathered his herds of followers till his too numbered among the larger tribes.

Africa of this epoch is not the place the world knows tonight. The great Ticonis Sea covered much of what would become the Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Nigeria, Chad and Southern Algeria. Africa looked like a shepherd's crook or question mark that began at the Atlantic coastline (just above the Gulf of Guinea), ran across the Mediterranean shoreline anddown the eastemcoast upon hitting the lands of Egypt. Ser in this fading sea were the Algerian Ahaggar peaks, which formed an island mass in the Ticonis Seaconnected to the rest of Africa by a thin isthmus, Demdemeh chose these lands as

CHAPTER ONE: A RABBLE OF FIENDS 33

TOTUM

Aboriginal Tamisce? Yeah, they're rare around New Mexico, but I did meet one once. He looked normal till he opened his shirt up. A line of faces ran down the length of his body and jabbered on inces santly. We called him Totem, for obvious reasons.

his domain and settled there with his growing tribe, to better leam his new rure.

OG

Demdemeh's rule was not easy, for the Nile had its own monsters that challenged the Tzimisce's presence. Still, he leamed to speak with the marshland crocodiles and form hulking reptilian beasts called mokele and their baboon servitors, the naglopers. Protecting the people of the Ahaggar, Demdemeh built the great city of Khamissa to humble the Egyptians. Unfortunately, the Eldest's touch afflicted Demdemeh over the centuries with a hunger for more than just blood. He feasted on banquets of flesh and became strange and alien to his own people, A row of gills covered his face like a grill, and he possessed no eyes, nose or mouth. Only his childer understood the whispered, incoherent sentences that he spoke.

By this time, the great Ticonis Sea was drying up and becoming swampland, while the Sahara swept into the land. The people of the Ahaggar fled, following those tribes who'd abandoned the fleeting paradise of the north em coast. The mokele rebelled against Demdemch and escaped into the soft mod; they slipped into the swamp- lands after nearly decimating Khamissa. Meanwhile, the naglopers vanished into the night and traveled south, far from the clan's reach. Demdemch finally retired to a haunted mountain city of virtually no inhabitants save loyal ghouls and his childer.

SYCORAX

Demdemeh fell into the sleep of ages in a lake deep beneath the Aluggar Mountains. Finally free from his watchful eye, his preeminent childe, the witch Sycorax, led the remaining egg south across the now-dried Ticonis

seabed. She left her sire in the care of his last loyal ghouls, the fierce Tuaregs, whose descendents remain in the region into the modern nights.

Sycorax intended to rule over the Nok cultures and the already established city of Ile-Ife as queen. She found her ambitions blocked by the arrival of nomads called the Yoruba, however. These people had lived in Egyptian lands for some centuries already and knew about the depredations of Cainites. Their leader, King Oduduwa, believed in the one-god Oludumare and his servitors, the Orisha. Unluckily for Sycorax, while King Oduduwa's faith proved a strong foil to her ambitions, she had greater

enemies in the Orisha who existed as spirits but could inhabit kine to fight her.

The Yoruba followed a system of singular devotion, mighty faith and even stronger ethics. As a monotheistic belief, it proved as compassionate and upstanding as any Christian ethic. Before slavery ripped Africa's heart out, the ajogun Yoruba warriors fought Sycorax and the cultic "followers of the Kagn," harrying them across Africa. The jogam proved troublesome (and still do) to the local Fiends. Unlike Sycorax and the egg, the apogun are entirely of African heritage and despise the interference of Cainites, even if they are of African extraction.

Forced into centuries of wandering and little peace, Sycorax eventually received satisfaction when European slavers tore West Africa asunder for their trade. After the Portuguese kidnapped 1.3 million slaves from the Angolan coast alone, Yoruba was in shambles. Slavers captured her people by the village-load, who could do little against the white locusts. If the ajogun despised outsiders before, the slave trade deepened their hatred greatly

Sycorax and her ilk may have survived their woes with the Yoruba, but the ajoga proved a greater enemy. By this point, Demdemeh had awoken from torpor and came to the aide of his daughter, but even he couldn't turn the battle in favor of the Fiends. The ajon commanded the very spirits of the land and turned the jungles against our brethren. The conflict forced Demdemeh and Sycorax into treaties with "white" Cainites who traveled with the traders, but these alliances were rarely to the eggm's benefits. Tired of fighting a divisive war, Demdemeh and a small number of followers retired into Kenya's Great Rift. Valley, just east of Lake Victoria. While Sycorax eventu ally fell to the ajogn, the remaining African Trimisce ensconced themselves into regional pockets close to the coastal strips and cities, where they survive to this night. While Landulf II claims the conflict with the jogun is less severe, however, these native undead still prove trouble- same to our interests. Whether they are Cainites or otherwise has yet to be ascertained. KARTARIRYA

By Devinder Bhalla, priest of the Split Lip pack

Ratti-Ben\! I believe it means "Sister of Blood." She's the childe of Kanaviya. I met her recently and was stummed by her appearance. She's covered in skin swatches with a different tattoo on each patch that she's collected from her victims. She's a quilted beauty

\-Laika, Trimisce holdin

Kartarirya's existence extends the length of the In- dian subcontinent's history, making it among the eldest and most powerful of our clan. It spent its earliest centuries with the Hampp culture and later with the Vedics who

CLANBOOK TRIMISCE

34

brought Sanskrit into the region. It did not coexist with them peacefully, however, for the bloodthirsty Kartarirya drew the hostilities of the growing Rroma people and a Nosferatu Methuselah who'd settled into the region.

Despite some conjecture, the region's Trimisce never inspired or emulated the multi-limbed avatars of the Hindu gods, though not for a lack of trying. Kartarirya tried impersonating Karttikeya, the god of war, only to discover the Brahmans wielded their faith as weapons and saw through such artifice. Surprisingly, in its search to find worshipers among the growing Vedicpantheon, Kartarirya came to understand and appreciate their religion. The multi-limbed divinities represented multiple states of be ings, interpretations and personalities. While the divinities were certainly terrifying to behold, the Indians accepted the complex and often conflicting gods and precepts as natural. Everything and everyone had their place and moment in time. Enamored with the concept of multifac eted existence and perception, Kartarirya geared its transcendence toward that effort. Instead of seeking wor ship, Kartarirya sought to remold itself into a creature that could exist in multiple states of awareness simultaneously.

Kartarirya fashioned the yakshi, demons by kine per- ception but horribly altered szlachta in reality. In the millennia following its arrival into the Indus Valley, Kartarirya's childer and yakshi schemed and fought against

the growing Cainite presence. The Brujah, ale iar to the region through their influence in Mesopotamia, first arrived en masse when Alexander the Great's armies swept through Hindu Kush and the Afghan Plateau. When Alexander died on his return journey, the Greek garrisons found themselves cut off from their homes and remained behind. A few Brujah stayed as well, eventually Embracing from the indigenous people. The Gangrel who rode with the Mongol hordes proved troublesome with their continued raids against the regional villages and towns, but eventually, the Indian culture absorbed them as well. The Toreador came with the French colonization of India in the 17th century, though later, a French-Indian Taimisce by the name Grandmere Kale ousted the Torea- de from dhe ishund of Reunnoimmats and came to live deep in the heart of its dormant volcano. Her domain became

tsy lansana, a Madagascar phrase for "a place from which

you never return."

The Ventrue came well after the East Indian Com- pany had established her monopoly over the region, but they proved of little concern to the local Fiends until the British suddenly went from a trading company to the ruling oppressors. The one place that remained beyond all outside influence, however, was opulent Hyderabad, acity blessed with Indo-Muslim heritage. From the 19th into the early 20th century, Hyderabad played the exotic port

CHAPTER ONE: A RABBLE OFFENDS

35

of call for the world's richest mortals and Cainites. Torea dor aristocracy who'd seen their world shattered by the French Revolution flocked to the City of Palaces and its unique architecture that drew Muslim and Indian influ- ences together effortlessly. High society, both sophisticated and exotic, intrigued vampires of all persuasions. Even the Ventrue couldn't resist attending her courts and proces sions. Some even suspect the Khazars finally settled in what became Hyderabad, lending an air of timelessness to its mystery.

Of course, such beauty never lasts. Hyderabad's pa tron was Omasam, a Rroma of Paigah nobility and among the richest of the maharajahs. Omasam fought against Trimisce inclusion in the local courts at every tum and even employed local murshad magicians to cast spells on families with Trimisce affiliations. This forced the Trimisce's hand in the region, relegating them to Embrac ing low-caste members after Omasam had their aristocratic ghouls murdered in their beds. Nobody realized the full repercussions of his actions until well after India's inde- pendence, when the caste system itself degraded. RATTI-BEN, "SISTER OF BLOOD"

00

Ratti-Ben represents a changing consciousness in India, one Mahatma Gandhi would have mourned had he known the future. It began in August of 1947, during India's partition into two nations: India and Pakistan. The previous years saw friction and outright hostility between Hindus and Muslims, and Kartarirya and its childer antici- pated the worst. When arbitrators announced the borders at the last minute, 12 million Muslims, Sikhs and Hindus scrambled to find their respective sides of the borders using the only form of available mass transit, the train. Unfor tunately for these travelers, these aging locomotives passed through the territory of one side or the other. Often times, trains would arrive at stations like Lahore-that served as the prime artery for travel both ways-with all its passengers butchered and massacred. Over one million people died in the Independence Day rioting, and while this was a mortal issue, the Trimisce certainly contributed to the chaos with night's arrival.

With Kartarirya in torpor, it fell to Ratti-Ben, Kartarirya's childe and a practitioner of baha man black magic, to continue its agenda. Unlike many within her brood. Ratti-Ben could best be described as a terrorist trying to usurp the rule of the Rroma and oust the Ventrue and Toreador from the Indian subcontinent. Her clan, long the underdogs in India's political games and power plays, often resorted to blatant acts of violence to keep the other clans preoccupied with the backlash. With the other clan's attentions diverted elsewhere, the Fiends used the diversions to launch a flurry of coups and assassina tions to undermine the authority of adversarial Cainutus.

THE FATE OF DEMDEMEH AND AFRICA'S TZIMISCE

I think we realized something was strange back in 1967, when seven people in Marburg, Germany died of a new and mysterious infection. As it turned out, a vaccine manufacturer called Behring Works used contaminated African greeti monkeys taken from the border near Uganda and Kenya for research. In 1970, the University of Marburg published a paper on the bugger and the world gets its first taste of filovirusus and this little bastard called Ebola. Russia's Main Directorate of the Council of Soviet Ministers, better known as our boys in Biopreparat, immediately jumps in with both feet. They send virologists to Mount Elgon and the Rift Valley, looking for the host species. that originally vectored this disease. Not only do they find nothing, but the team also vanishes. That's when some of Piotr's boys put two and two together and remember the legends of the Methuselah Demdemeh and how he vanished with a few followers in-you got it-the Great Rift Valley.

Over the years, the CDC, USAMRIID and Biopreparat are running around hot zones whenever Ebola suddenly appears. With the fall of the Soviet Union, I finally get a chance to talk to Piotr and find out what he knows about these hemorrhagic viruses cropping up. Long and short of it is Biopreparat, after mapping out local hot zones and doing extensive groundwork in the region, thinks the virus originated in Mount Elgon's Kitum Cave on the Uganda-Kenyan border. One case actually involved a British expatri ate getting sick and dying from Ebola after visiting the cave. Kitum is the remnants of a petrified forest-I've been there with hardened trees making up part of the rock walls. Elephants fucking go there to die. It's the creepiest place I've seen, and I'm pretty sure I didn't see it all. Something was hiding in those caves. Something hidden, but... tangibly strange. Anyway, getting back to Piotr, his specialists think that the Ebola they've found in various outbreaks is a poison- ous by-product of something larger. Piotr called it ghoul bacteria, but he couldn't be sure. What they found in Kitum Cave, however, is fluid and won't stay locked down. They're not sure what it is exactly, but they have a fair idea.

Here's what our Russian friends think, and re- member, I'm just the messenger. They think Demdemeh transcended all right, but not in the way we'd expect. Piotr believes he obliterated himself into viral form, then used his own childer as petri dishes. They found that protean viral sample in Kitum on a dying elephant. Piotr thinks the Methuselah is infect ing the local wildlife ("riding elephants" he called it) and occasionally vectoring Ebola into the populace. This elephant graveyard shit is Demdemeh reuniting himself with part of the whole. He's becoming part of the Eldest, mark my word.

CLANBOOK: TZMSCI

36

During the Independence Day rioting, for instance, the Fiends used the night trains as mobile butcher shops. They traveled the length of the country, stopping long enough to take on new passengers, before murdering them en route to their destinations.

In the 20th century alone, Ratti-Ben and her progeny ensured that states in Northern India stayed violent and dissatisfied, to undermine regional Rroma rule. With the destruction of the ancient Rroma, however, the Fiends started a trend that is reversing India's advancement. The Trimisce supported the Dalits, once known as the un- touchables, in attacking the Raj Brahman caste throughout this past decade as evidenced in states like Bihar, where the caste-strife resulted in the murder and massacre of entire villages. Ironically, the lower castes are acutely aware of the changing world around them, thanks to television and newspapers. Now they want more, and over the last two decades, they've been getting it. The Dalits can elect their own candidates into national parliament, and their influence grows steadily. Much to the dissatisfac tion of the populace, however, these low-caste individuals

are often members of organized crime. Some political candidates have criminal records a mile long, employ armed goondas thugs to protect them from assassins and even use the police to off their rivals. Bribery is the most effective method to gain the support of a village chief and all the voters in his district. India's politics suffer from systemic corruption, and the local Timisce, long the supporters of campaigns of terror, gained substantial po litical presence thanks to their patronage of the Dalits. As result, the Fiends have destabilized the holdings of poliri cal enemies and grow as India's preeminent clan.

With the Ravnos gone, the Tzimisce possess unprec edented influence and prestige in India. As result, many Trimisce employ envoys to negotiate with their distant cousins in an effort to use India as the staging ground for the Sabbat's crusade into Asia. With Kartarirya in torpor, Ratti-Ben may well join the Sabbat, bringing many Fiends with her and giving the Sabbat both a nation ranked seventh as an industrial power and with a population of 843 million potential vessels-or Cainites.

Welcome to Kali Yuga. Welcome to the Age of Kali

CHAPTER ONE: A RABBLE OF FIENDS

37

00

CHAPTER TWO

EGO AND EVOLUTION

In these circumstances I decided that the only safe thing for me to do was go for myself. It became clear that it was possible for me to take the initiative: instead of simply reacting I could act. I could unilaterally-whether anyone agreed with me or not-repudiate all allegiances, morals, values-even while continuing to exist within this society. My mind would be free and no power in the universe could force me to accept something if I didn't want to. But f would take my own sweet time. That, too, was part of my new freedom.

Methuselahe

\-Eldridge Cleaver, Soul on Ice

our kind has assoc Let me say, at first, that I resent this task. I have better things to do than play encyclopedia to unite corpses. Many things have happened while you evere asleep, ancient one" ated itself with the Lasombra against the servants of Caine's grandchilder, and the Old World is no even the Califf are now a longer our home. Clan means less than a family surname in these times dan. With Cainites from every line, even a fear of those licentions Tremere until a few years ago, we maintain a league of Cainites called the Sabbat.

I regret that I consumed the soul of my sire. Only because I am your descendant of the fullest Blood dees this chore fall to me. I have sent Ezra to guide you in the mundane necessities: My childe will teach you how to hold a phone and watch a television. Ezra speaks English and Spanish, the lingua franca of the Sabbat, and will teach them to you. The lessons will doubtless take many years, and I have no time for such drudgery. I personally houer my duties in the most traited souse: I will apprise you of the state of Clan Tzimisce.

If this summary does not suffice... well, I do not fear your poever, though it has deepened through centuries. Do you know what an airplane ist Have you heard of New York Cityt Did you know that we hide from mortals not no doubt you believe that the living mean nothing to us. The times into which you have awakened swill prove you evrong.

The mortals can destroy the world now, old one. Do not waste another century on learning history

tot much has happened during your 700-year

slumber. You must understand our world as it is now or else my lessons will be lost on you. Listen

dosely to Ezra, and keep it for as long as you wish.

Without wasting more luck on you, on to the first lesson.

Troilus Cressida

CHAPTER TWO: EGO AND EVOLUTION

39

THE NIGHTSOF THE YOUNG

A Fiend in California Embraces and diablerizes serial killers, collecting their murderous souls. The regent de stroyed a pack in Mexico City for burning downa Grimaldi estate. A Trimisce sire and childe sold their souls to Hell in exchange for the location of a sleeping Cainite with old blood in his veins (perhaps this is why you have awakened, old one?). The clan you once knew, the clan of voivodes and koldim, is a dusty painting hanging in some elder's closet. Even Cezar Satnoianu's brood huddles in the alleys of the New World like beggars. Some Trimisce keep the old ways, but most of them now squander eternity on dancing through bonfires, gorging themselves on ostenta- tious blood-rituals, and then going about whatever business they please, clan and sect be damned. They call them

selves "Fiends."

These are your clanmates in the Final Nights.

How will you deal with these childer, old one? Even as mortals, they wielded power that you would consider miraculous. They can talk over continents-the voivode in Mexico City can speak to the Cardinals of the Lands Beyond the Forest as if they stood face to face. They have access to a book called the Intemer, a book that allows modem folk to search, if not directly access, the whole of their accumulated knowledge. Through their public schools, the modem masses understand their world better than the wisest senescluals of your time.

And they conduct themselves in the most informal ways. Kings are rare in this time. The Greek's democracy is the rising vogue. Corporations control economies. Their weapons are the province of gods. They possess things that will burn you, your haven and your city, old one, in one foul conflagration. Be careful where you take your sustenance-the mortals have eyes that watch the most hidden places. The mortals who now join you in undeath were born into this world; you will never learn even half the truths they have always assumed.

Although they are young, the modern generations sustain two sects larger than the undead population your Old World ever achieved. A charter of Traditions binds the Camarilla, a league that claims to speak for every Cainite in the world. How could a relic from our fractious past even conceive of that?

In a way, these modem nights are the logical conse quence of our Father's outlook. He sought to become something great, a being on par with the Creator perhaps or a being enlightened enough to be free of His rules. The young ones call this "ego." Ego is Taimisce's ideal, pride as a way of being, the elevation of the one above the rabble. The mortals of the past few centuries have co-opted our ideal as their own. They have declared God dead. Their governments make a show of treating citizens like "indi- viduals," entitled to certain rights. It is not some academic subject for them, but a way of mortal life; still, the bounds of pride, which a Germanic doctor named "ego," have been described and debated by their scholars for almost a century. In their new self-importance, these generations understand little of convention, status or protocol. Rude childer, blood-smeared surgeons and fire-dancing witches have replaced voivodes, chupans and koldun, Undeath is no longer a curse or an obligation; it is a punishment. For the

active, it is a challenge. A threat.

Although the modern generations of Tzimisce reflect dane, naive or metaphysically inferior. Humans, to most the mortal world, they still reject it as uninspiring, mun- Fiends, are little more than food. But the progress of the mortal world makes more demands on the Children of Caine than it did when it wielded swords and feared demons. We rely on our breathing servants more than ever, as you shall see.

THE FACTS OF UNLIFE

If you find any advantage to awakening in these vulgar times, it may be that the manners of these reckless childer are

unsophisticated and simple to learn. As I suspect it was in your

time, demeanor means more than one's words when dealing with another Cainite. I'm sure you knew when to play the wolf and when to play the cub, old one? Still, most of the young Trimisce, those not stuck in the ways of your time, rely on few formalities when conducting their affairs. Those few who to hear caths of fealty. could recite their lineage do not, and no toivodes are available

I will offer you examples of their informalities. If they Remember that they would snuff you en masse for stand- anger you, remember that few teach our ways in this time. ing against them, as we did with the Eldest.

HEADFIRST INTO UNDEATH

Tzimisce don't "select worthy mortals" for the Em- brace. No such thing exists. Family name, education and status remain considerations, but they are no longer the prerequisites you remember. The Fiends pick mortals with the potential to become something great in undeath-to becomea leader among their kind, tear down the Camarilla or uncover a new principle of Metamorphosis. Fiends Embrace for the same reasons other Cainites do--com- panionship, assistance, prestige-but most of them require that spark, that predestined ego. Genius isn't enough.

CLANBOOK: TEIMISCE

Both sects contain legions-whatever laws you followed in the Carpathians, when our numbers were small and every childe knew his great-grandsire, are obsolete. While the Sabbat lacks the strictures of the Camarilla, it also maintains something like loyalty among its members. Because of ablood- sharing ritual called the Vaulderie, most of your cousins are now more Sabbat than Taimisce. The Mongol horde still threatens to overtake you, old one. They share your Blood.

40

To become Taimisce, a person needs the drive to do something impressive. Some Fiends might have become presidents, inventors, artists or entrepreneurs if their lives weren't cut short by the Embrace. Yes: The history of the world might have been very different without our kind.

But ego expresses itself in other ways-the serial killer who murders 13 people to accommodate his abuse as a child The pervert with the courage to indulge his taste for blood, despite society's taboos. The scientist who creates a new disease to wipe out particular tribes in spite of his profession's ethics. The atheist who writes screeds against the faith of others to subdue his own skepticism. The heroin addict who hates the world for driving him to the needle. Each is your grandchilde, eight generations removed.

Following the Embrace, some Trimisce childer spend many years under the wings of their sites, sometimes their entire unlives. Traditional Fiends instruct their childer in every aspect of the Curse of Caine and in the conventions of the Sabbat and Clan Trimisce. After the first few years of this wicked education, most Tamisce see the concerns of their mortals lives as irrelevant memories and stand ready to destroy the Antediluvians and their Camarilla proxies.

Trimisce sires often number among the most objec tive of teachers. While some Cainites tell their childer exactly what they want them to know and lie about the rest, most Fiends prefer honesty-brutal honesty. Sur- vival leaves no time to make up stories. Tzimisce sires quickly destroy childer who can't deal with the truth or fail to realize their potential.

Exceptions Taimisce who come into undeath through mass Embraces usually leam the facts of unlife from their packs. And the dangers of being Sabbat crusades, Fire Dancing, Monomacy-orphan many Trimisce. Far too many Panders- the Caitiff clan, old one--can blame the Fiends for their plight, most of them failed experiments or luckless bastards who somehow survived the suicide missions for which they were dragged into undeath.

Finally, the Tamisce Embrace has a way of changing people. Even those Embraced haphazardly during crusades tend to enter unlife somewhat distorted. What is it that turns a mortal-an animal that uses religion and morality to convince itself it's not an animal-into a blood-bathing demon who seeks evolution through Metamorphosis? Per- haps it's a quality of the Blood, but more likely it's the intensity of the Trimisce unlifestyle-aside from the fact that they're undead, having a blunt sire explain the war against the ancients while bonecrafting their skulls is enough to make mest mass-Embracees want to crawl back into the ground. Loss of identity is an understandable fear, but some find it preferable to viewing unlife through human eyes. Regardless, even the best people can emerge from the experience ready to diablerize their way to Caine.

TWO HANDFULS OF DIRT

I have felt the soil of the Old World in my hands, old one. At first, it seems cold and viscous. Then you squeeze it between your fingers, and you realize that it is wet. Not wet like mud, not some weak oore, but like sandy clods of red dirt that have consumed 10,000 years of rain. As it crumbles, you realize that your gloves are wet, and later, they will smell a bit rotten. The soil resembles our clan, old one. It is fallow. We remain attached to it, though these modem Trimisce rest most easily in the soil of whatever homeland they claimed as amortal or a place important to their ego-the soil at their childhood home or the dirt of their intended grave.

But they do not call this addiction a weakness-it symbolizes the Fiend's connection to their so-called home- land. At least, that's how some Tzimisce regard their dependence on their native soil. Does one as old as you recognize this curse\! Without at least two handfuls of dirt from a place important to them as a mortal, Trimisce grow weaker until they spend a full night surrounded by their precious soil once more. Wise Taimisce keep much more than two handfuls around. Some don't feel safe unless they have a dozen crates of the stuff hidden all over town.

Perhaps you could answer a question for me, Methuselah: Are the Trimisce territorial because their weakness complicates migration, or is it a punishment for their possessiveness? Noddists cite myths in which Caine curses the entire line for the feudal outlook of its founder. Koln believe the weakness is a debt to the land-spirits of their native domains, whose power affects all that falls under the shadow of the Carpathians. Few truths arise where myths and spirits are concerned.

Some Taimisce have it worse than others. A very small number, bom continents away from Eastern Europe, actually need dirt from the soured lands of their ancestors. In the modem nights, few Trimisce realize what such childer require anddestroy them for their apparent weakness. Those sires who know the old secrets of their clan or discover the truth in time to help a fading childe actually revere their progeny for their special connection to the Old World Can you imagine, a Taimisce sire serving his childe\! With the modem reemer genceef Koldunic Sorcery, ancientkoldim often seek out these young Cainites in order to teach them the ways of their art. They keep plenty of Old Country soil on hand to entice potential apprentices

BLOOD, OUR JAILER

According to our own legends, the Eldest was the first Cainite to discover the blood bond. In some versions (in which the Crone is conspicuously absent), Caine himself is ignorant of the power of his own Blood until his grandchilde teaches him its use. Whether this is truth or propaganda, throughout history, some Trimisce have

considered themselves masters of the blood bond, with the revenants and ghouls to support those claims

CHAPTER TWO: ECO AND EVOLUTION 41

06

That our clan was responsible for the greatest innova tion in the use of blood bonds is more than a myth. When the young Trimisce of the Old World rose up against their elders, packs of rebellious childer sometimes pooled their blood into a bowl liberated from a wealthy voivode or the skull of a fallen elder. Each member of the pack drank from the container as a sign of solidarity. Packs that engaged in this practice displayed decidedly unvampiric tendencies: loyalty to their fellows and even willingness to sacrifice their unlives for their brothers. When combined with koldim magis in a ritual that foreshadowed the Sabbat Valderie, these packs destroyed their blood bonds to their sires and proved immune to attempts to restore it.

Even before the Anarch Revolt, Tzimisce with ad- vanced understandings of the Paths of Enlightenment could cause those enthralled by their blood to experience particular emotions or desires. These Trimisce understood how to subdue their Beasts to such a degree that they could sometimes master the base impulses of their thralls as well.

Most regnants have little say in how the thrall ex- presses the mockery of love instilled by the blood bond. Those of our kind who knew how to influence the bond, however, could make their thralls feel violently jealous, obsequious, reverent or even fearful. In the Final Nights, a few Trimisce sufficiently stalwart in their Path of En- lightenment can create the same effect.

Perhaps I want something from you after all, old one.

NEVER EAT YOUR OWN

Many Taimisce refuse to diablerize members of their own clan, if they indulge in the Amaranth at all. This perplexes other Sabbat, who widely regard diablerie as a vehicle topower. It could not be, they say, that the clan has such internal loyalty.

When questioned, some Tzimisce relate the story of Luther Wexler, a diablerst who met an unenviable Final Death. A year after Wexler consumed the soul of his sire, he bragged about the destruction of his sure to his pack while they shared blood. Before the bowl made its way back to the pack priest on the other side of the fire, Wexler and all the packmates who had tasted his blood stood up at once. Their eyes widened like those of frightened animals. Bloody specters climbed out of their mouths and sloughed off their skins, which fell away in neat puddles like dropped robes. The specters met in the fire and became flesh, then ran off into the night.

The survivor who spread the account was supposedly a fledgling who had yet to partake of the Vaulderie with hernew pack. The rest of the Sabbat remains unconvinced.

The Trimisce distaste for diablerie might be attrib uted to several factors. Traditional Trimisce sires often warn their childer that when they drink a Cainite dry, they also drink her soul. Strong souls can linger after the Final Death, and some want a say in how their potent blood is

OPTIONAL RULE: FLAVORING BLOOD BONDS

If a Trimisce attains a Path rating of 8 or more, the Fiend can manipulate his blood bonds to instill particular desires or emotions within his thralls. At the time of the third sip, the Trimisce must have a specific quality in mind, but the quality seldom manifests unless the circumstances of the relation ship, and perhaps the blood sharing itself, could logically result in the intended dynamic. A ghoul who's been locked in the dungeon of a domitor who never leaves his lab, for example, probably can't be made to feel especially jealous,

If the situation allows, roll the regnant's Path rating (difficulty equal to the thrall's Willpower). The number of successes indicates how fully the thrall's bond has the quality desired by the regnant One success indicates a vague feeling that occa sionally influences the thrall. With five successes, the quality is the defining element of the thrall's relationship with his regnant. This context lasts until the bond lapses or the regnant instills a new emotion. On a botch, the regnant assumes the emotions meant for the thrall.

Although most Fiends who possess this ability consider it a power unique to Trimisce blood, Cainites who have diablerized a Tzimisce or even shared a significant quantity of blood with a Fiend could conceivably develop this control over their thralls, at the Storyteller's discretion.

used. Some Metamorphosists fear that such an arrange ment might lead them astray from Azhi Dahaka. Trimisce who eschew Vicissitude almost never diablerize Cainites with the disease for fear of contamination. Other Trimisce. protective of their egos, recoil at the thought of another entity dwelling inside them, influencing their thoughts. Fetishes aside, most Tzimisce prefer remaining a weaker but self-made Cainite to becoming someone's mighty puppet. The fact that mass-Embraced Fiends who lack the knowledge of our clan's values and diablerie's true nature don't share their brothers' compunctions lends credence to this theory.

This is not to say that Trimisce never practice diablerie. Some accept the teachings of their sires but attempt to avoid complications by destroying all sources of their intended victim's self-worth; when they finally diablertze the victim, his soul is broken and longs for obliterating quiet. Others actually relish the idea of becoming eremal prisons for the souls of their enemies. Some accept the risks, hoping the power is worth the price. Few of the youngest Tzimisce, which is to say much of the Sabbat, see

any danger in dhablene.

GLANSOOL: TRIMISCE

42

LOYALTIESOF THE CLAN

If not for your torpid absence from the world, I have little doubt that you would have been destroyed during the Anarch Revolt. Those as old as you cling to the past, and judging from your descendants, I suspect that you would have preferred Final Death to equality with your childer. Still, your slumber has saved you, and wisely, you have accepted the clan's new loyalties, though I doubt you understand them. Blood such is yours is too valuable to our cause, even if it slushes through the veins of a creature that cannot turn on a computer or read a clock. THE SOUL OF THE SABBAT?

"If Clan Lasombra is the heart of the Sabbat, Clan Trimisce is the soul." Sabbat members resort to this trope so often that I would not be surprised to learn that they were the first words you heard upon awakening. Do these often-repeated words actually mean anything?

To dissect this metaphon Clan Lasombra lends the necessary hierarchy to the sect. It's the "heart" because without it, the body, the sect, could not function. In this way, the Lasombra live up to their self-proclaimed role as their "brother's keepers."

But even if the Lasombra literally keep the blood flowing, the Trimisce make continued existence worth- while. We're the "soul" because we attend to the higher spiritual and intellectual demands of that continued exist ence. The Lasombra keep the Sabbat alive, and we tell the sect what it should do with that vigor. If the Lasombra tend to be ducti, cardinals and archbishops, Tzimisce tend to be prisci, pack priests and members of the consistory, the group that advises the regent.

But the difference isn't that practical. The "soul" is just as necessary to the functioning of the body, or sect, but in a way that's less concrete. The Trimisce have accom- plished much in their spiritual role.

The Packs: The Sabbat organizes itself into small packs united by the Vaulderie, a blood-sharing ritual that bands packmates to one another. When they rebelled against their elders, Trimisce formed the first crude packs and invented the process that later became the Vaulderie. The pack structure is responsible for whatever unity the sect enjoys despite their lack of laws or common heritage. And Cainites are nocturnal predators unnaturally suited to isolation. That we have cobbled a semblance of society aming such creatures ranks among the greatest accom plishments of the children of Trimisce

The Paths of Enlightenment: It's easy to think of the Paths as abstract moralities, but they serve a very practical function: preventing Cainites from succumbing to their

CHAPTER TWO EGO AND EVOLUTION 43

Beasts. Back when even Cainites looked to Heaven or Hell to preserve their souls (to which did you look, old one?), a few Trimisce sought Metamorphosis. Individuals who made a point of transcending their former humanity had to develop ways to stifle their Beasts while still becoming inhuman. Those who didn't turn to Metamor phosis borrowed philosophies developed by other Cainites and turned them into full-blown Paths of Enlightenment. While most Sabbat wallow in the worst of their former humanitas, we have developed more useful approaches to undeath for the enlightened few. Without the moal instruction of the Taimisce, the entire Sabbat would be a slavering, monstrous horde. More so, anyway.

The Ritae: Many of the Sabbat's nae have their origins in Trimisce practices. A ceremony that was used in your nights of relevance to confirm new voivodes, for instance, inspired what is now the Blood Bath. When a new woode annexed a demesne, those of or dependent upon the Blood whoexisted in that region-Cainites, revenants and presentable ghouls attended a coronation. The new londsat before a large bowl, and each of his subjects approached him, attested that he was the undisputed ruler, then filled the bowl with as much of her own blood as she could without losing consciousness or self-control.

After all of his subjects made their contribution, the new voivode held up the bowland issued a warning to those who would question his power. Mirroring an even older pagan ritual, when the new vovode reached the violent peak of his ceremonial threat, he threw the bowl into the air, drenching his assembled servants in the collected blood-a demonstration of what would happen if they defied his rule.

When the Taimisce adapted this ritual for use within the Sabbat, they reversed its intent and mocked the original. When a new Cainite fills a high position within the Sabbat cardinal, archbishop or regent, perhaps-she bathes in the collected blood. If the original splashing represented the price of insurrection, the Sabbar's Blood Bath represents the as- sumption of responsibility for poor leadership. The ruled threaten the ruler. Although the assembled still swear their loyalty in the modem nights, they receive praise and advice from the newly titled vampire rather than swearing never to question her leadership.

The Sabbat has surely profited from our hand-me- downs. The ritar (despite the hastard Latin preserved by ignorant Lasombra and young Trimisce's lazy tongues) provide unity within the sect, maintain morale and allow Cainites to experience fully what undeath has to offer in spite of its curse.

THE TZIMISCE HIERARCHY

Although the modern incarnation of the clan defined itself in the rebellious fires of Kupala's Night, we Taimisce hardly discarded our right to rule, even if the word means something different in the context of the Final Nights. My

generation didn't object to the elder's power on principle, as some vainglorious Brujah do. We objected because we didn't hold power ourselves. As such, the clan resurrected on Kupala's Night (if not all of its members) still acknowl edges the hierarchy of the Sabbat and retains a semblance of its former organization as well.

The Voivode of the clan is traditionally the most powerful active Tzimisce in the world. This was the role of the Ancient itself-in the first nights, its authority was unquestionable. When Tzimisce fell into torpor, Yonak assumed the position of Vorvode. He set the standard that all succeeding Voivodes must meet. In the modem nights. this standard is interpreted as an advanced understanding of both Koldunic Sorcery and a Path of Enlightenment... and the unreserved endorsement of the clan elders.

Why would our clan's figurehead rely on such esoteric principles? Perhaps you can answer this better than I, old one. Few Cainites follow the Paths of Enlightenment, and kolmism is almost unheard of outside our lineage-why then do we demand such unconventional prerequisites?

If they are not some lingering dictate of the Eldest, then I am inclined to blame history. I have heard that Yorak was a kelan, perhaps the first kolan. It could be that he knew his art would dwindle as the world aged and established a precedent that our clan would need in the Final Nights. Then again, it could be that other Voivodes merely seek to prove to their followers that they are like the venerable Yorak. Despite what the medieval Metamorphosist texts record, I doubt that the Timisce profited so greatly under his guidance. His rule was longpasteven before the European Dark Ages. Only an ancient creature like yourself could give us a more accurate account....

As for the requirement that a candidate follow a Path, my own theory is that it was added after a technical disagreement among the Tzimisce elders who must sup- port any aspirant. You may have heard the name Sascha Vykos-did news of the Tremere-Trimisce conflict reach the mountains under which you hid? Even before your 700-year leave, Sascha worked against the Antediluvians; the siege of Atlanta was its latest contribution-or was it Washington, DC? In any event, it told me that advanced understanding of a Path became a precedent after a dispute among some elders about whether the previous Voivode was fully in control of his Beast. Many Trimisce from the Old World regarded frenzy as base, uncouth, animal-like. Elders from the Old World saw the New World "elders"" support of this ravenous Voivode as proof that the New World could not pick a worthy Voivode. Although perhaps only five Cainites were involved in the dispute, those few were the eldest of Mexico City, a cabal that can still blackball any potential Voivode, even if they can no longer seat one on their own. The preference for a Voivode to follow a Path of Enlightenment was proposed by the New World contingent an effort to correct their earlier mistake and complicate the Old World's argument against

CLANSOOR TRIMISCE

44

them. As Sascha says, it was a way to prove that a future candidate was master of his Beast, proof against the Old World Trimisce's accusation that the New World elders were appointing another rabid dog to the post.

Adopting a Path requires the will and rigor to oppose your baser urges. It is, therefore, a rare act for a Cainite. Then, as now, most Tzimisce want a Voivode who is disciplined...

and obscure. In the Final Nights, most Trimisce regard their Voivode like lapsed Catholics might regard the Pope they get furious if they hear him insulted, but they don't exactly agree that he's infallible. The current Voivode may be the last. Her name is little known within the clan, almost unheard of within the larger sect. Her voice does not carry beyond Mexico City. And she is ignorant of kaldunism. If the Ancient still exists, it is surely dissatisfied.

Nodoubt this news distresses you. At least the zhupons still exist they bear the duties once expected of our titular leader, maybe because their status is earned rather than ordained. These are the wisest (not necessarily oldest) members of the clan-in the Final Nights, they remain the most conversant in the lore of the Trimisce. Their knowledge, as well as their prowess in battle, proves they deserve their title-before a Fiend can be considered a zhupan, he must first master the zulo form. At least one of the ancient ways still endures, Methuselah.

Some Trimisce still claim the title of toode, though the ritual of formal recognition no longer exists. These voivodes, not to be confused with the Voivode of the entire clan, appoint themselves and enforce their claims as best they can. They fulfill an obsolete function that was the heart of the Trimisce feudal ideal oversight of a

demesne, or domain.

Most Trimisce who claim the title enforce domain over a particular stock of mortals, usually a neighborhood or small city. The voivode of Athens, Georgia (surely a laughable title to the Old World Fiends) claimed domain as the only Cainite who makes his haven in that town after the siege of Atlanta. The voivode of Miami can enforce his claim only in Little Havana.

FACTIONS AMONG FIENDS

Not every childe of Taimisce aligns himself with some faction, the Sabbat included. Aside from dozens of packs, Metamorphosist schools and Gehenna cults, the Tzimisce have also organized themselves into several large factions

within our clan.

THE OLD CLAN

Does this branch of the clan cling to the oldest ways of the Trimisce, or are they something akin to puritan radicals? Accounts conflict, but at some point in the ancient past, a segment of the clan either refused or denounced the "defilement" of Vicissitude. Some mem-

bers of the Old Clan are exceedingly ancient-perhaps they know some lore of which the rest of the clan is ignorant Scholars have contrived all manner of unlikely theories to explain why these "Old World" or "Old Clan" Trimisce reject the fleshcrafting arts, but the Fiends in question aren't talking. In fact, they'd prefer never to talk to their clan at all, but holding their noses and joining the Sabbat seems preferable to fending off the fangs of our hungry cousins.

As the name applied to their branch of the clan implies, many of the Old Clan Trimisce maintain de mesnes in Eastern Europe and continue to manage their holdings in the medieval fashion (if less openly). The Cardinals of the Land Beyond the Forest hesitate to make many demands on this uneasy relationship, but the Sabbat can rely on occasional assistance from the Old Clan, particularly in Romania-that is what the world now calls your homeland, old one.

Old Clan Tzimisce have mastered Caine's gift of mental domination in place of Vicissitude. They consider themselves to be the clan's aristocracy, a family that still conducts its affairs in the ancient Trimisce way. Their witches still know the most obscure ways of koldimism. The Old Clan still practices the ceremonies of coronation and rites-of-passage for childer. The ritae are abhorrent to them. Perhaps you would find more identifiable company among their ranks, old one.

CHILDREN OF THE DRACON

The Children of the Dracon trace their roots to

Constantinople, though Noddist scholars disagree on whether this history is genuine or was later co-opted to lend credence to the group. Members of the Children, also called "Dracons," claim to be descendants of the first childe of Tzimisce.

This knightly order of Fiends exists so that Clan Tzimisce may atone for its sins. Dracon's Children believe that the clan as a whole committed some grievous error at a critical point in its history. The Dracons reject Koldunic Sorcery maybe Kupala's Night was the error in ques tion. If so, why did they join the Sabbat? Perhaps because their founder instructed them not to abandon their clan. Instead, they now oppose almost every decision made by the clan Voivode or enacted by several influential elders, seemingly for the sole purpose of being contrary, but this seems unlikely. They voice this opposition through their continued involvement in the Sabbat. The Children of the Dracon produce legions of templars and claim a few European bishoprics. They are excluded from the Black Hand, however, and no Dracon has ever served as the Voivode of Clan Trimisce

The rather arbitrary opposition to any policy en- dorsed by the clan troubles many Tzimisce because the Children's motivations are not entirely clear. One rather

CHAPTER TWO: EGO AND EVOLUTION 45

ancient Metamorphosist suggests that evolution is a re- ponse to a threat-perhaps the Children spur the entire clan's advancement by providing the requisite resistance. Another popular theory is that this perpetual opposition is a punishment for the clan's great mistake. Sascha Vykos, a former resident of Constantinople, will tell me only that "Dracon is dead to me. His so-called Children make a mockery of their purloined heritage."

The Children of the Dracon organize themselves much like a monastic order, with "scions" establishing monasteries made up primarily of their own broods. The monasteries coordinate their activities through the Hagia Sophia, a Dracon Vatican of sorts somewhere around the Mediterranean. The scholarly wing of this order, the Akoimetai, is drawn almost exclusively from a branch of the Obertus revenant family, though this family produces some knights as well. Taimisce not descended from a scion are rarely allowed to join, and even those who do are referred to as "camon" and never granted full understand ing of the meaning of the 12 legacies that this sect-within-a-sect abides. Children of the Dracon also tolerate the existence of thin-blooded Cainites within their ranks, a trend that disgusts conservative elements within the clan.

Before the Embrace, the Children leave the monastery to study the "12 legacies"-precepts of the order-with various enclaves across the globe. Then, they return to their me tery of origin to be Embraced. If the initiate is an Akoimetai, he is entrusted with one volume from the Library of the Forgotten. If a knight, he is charged to carry a letter in an envelope he is forbidden to open, sealed with the mark of Dracon himself, to some other Fiend elsewhere in the world. Confirmed in the order, the new Child of the Dracon departs to establish himself within Sabbat society.

In the modern nights, the haven of the scion is the "monastery" for any given cell, and no one but the scion and perhaps a member of the Akoimetas makes their permanent haven there. The Children prefer that their ranks remain involved with the sect rather than cloister ing themselves. Some Dracons aspire to follow the Path of Metamorphosis or the Path of Honorable Accord, though elder members and a few young prodigies claim to follow a different Path sarknown to the Sabbat at large. The Akoimetai observe a variety of ignoblis vitae, but most Children refuse to take part in any ritae they believe to be derived from koldunic practices.

Prominent Children are sometimes granted unique titles and serve specific functions within the order. Some educated Taimisce muy recognize the titles Keeper of the Faith and the Gesudian, though more obscure titles exist as well. My own knowledge fails here, as well; I have no idea what duties or benefits the Keeper of the Faith or the Gesudian perform or enjoy.

THE ROMANIAN LEGACY FOUNDATION

You may recognize some of the names on this founda tions' board of trustees: Bratovitch, Obertus, Grimaldi, Zantosa. The last you know, though you might not imme diately recognize it-acorruption of the name Santovich.

These names represent the four remaining revenant families of any size. During your slumber, they came to serve the Sabbat. I will explain this later. For now, it is enough to know that our clan still draws many neonates from the ranks of these four families.

The Romanian Legacy Foundation is composed of Cainites who sprang from our revenant houses. Although the board of trustees is composed of proven ancillae, the foundation is made up mostly of young Tzimisce. Those who still draw childer from the revenant houses rarely welcome their chosen to undeath with a shovel in the face. The Romanian Legacy Foundation gives these new chil- drenamore cultured introduction to undeath. Foundation members from all over the world fly to cities like Boston, Rio de Janeiro, Amsterdam or Oradea for "conventions." These conventions are actually rites of welcome for these Cainites-to-be.

Fifty or so members meet at the haven of the host, or at a reverant estate, and engage in the bloodiest of Sabbat bacchanalia. Mortals hang from the ceiling, dripping blood into enormous urns that are later overtumed at the tops of stairways, the host's demonstration that blood is available in abundance. The blood is usually consumed before the stroke of midnight. Relatives who haven't seen each other since the last convention share the Vaulderie. No entertainment is excluded, if it strikes the host's fancy. Even if no revenants are inducted through the foundation one year, various members host at least two or three such gatherings to maintain ties with the organization.

Just before moming, the new childer are Embraced while they are drunk, exhausted and, quite likely, weak from loss of blood. If they do not leave with their sites the next night, the fledglings are assigned to a sponsor, a member of the foundation who's probably no more than a few years dead herself. Because the fledglings are of revenant blood, they probably understand quite a bit more about undeath than their once-mortal peers. If they are to be instructed by a neonate, only a former revenant will do.

Although these sponsors can teach their students how to deal with the undead condition, they give their charges something far more valuable: an introduction to the society of the Damned. Sponsors show their charges around the city, introducing them to their fellow Trimisce and perhaps other members of the Sabbat as well. The sponsors show their students the best areas to feed and the locations where significant ritae take place. The new Cainites receive the welcome to undeath that a worthy revenant should strive to eam.

CLANSCORTZIMISCE

46

Why does this family affair require such a misleading name? The foundation requires a degree of publicity, since another of their purposes is to locate branches of their families or of the families that supposedly vanished or no longer serve the Tzimisce. The name is for the sake of America's tax collectors, to whom the foundation repre- sents itself as a "nonprofit genealogical organization." Mortals who see their classified advertisements for "con ventions" or find the right page in the book of the Internet can petition for membership. They must submit their family trees to be considered. The scholars affiliated with the foundation scour these submissions for any relatives to our revenant families.

Somewhere, a child bearing an Anglicized name grows with our blood coursing through her veins. Her blood may be too watery for her to be considered a revenant, or maybe not. Regardless, the Trimisce blood within her no doubt makes her an exceptional mortal. If she is like most of the cousins located by the foundation, she is emotionally disturbed in some way, given to fits of depression or indulging in the torture of cats, perhaps Despite her haunted life, she could grow up to be a bold lender, a fiery priest or an ingenious scholar like many of our distant relatives. If the foundation locates her in time, she may be fit to receive the Embrace rather than die as an exceedingly old and talented mortal.

The majority of revenants brought into undeath aren't associated with the Romanian Legacy Foundation. Still, some of our clanmates see the organization as a way to maintain our old traditions, even though our revenant aristocracy is spread so thinly across the world. Even revenants who weren't inducted into the foundation at their creation can join, provided they survive the remedial initiation rite, about which the less said, the better. NEOFEUDALISTS

More a sensibility than a movement, the neofeudalists are those Tzimisce who seek a return to the nights when the we ruled kine as kings ruled serfs. They often claim vast tracts of domain, sire large broods of childer and defend their posses For neofeudalists, relying on their own resources rather than sions with a territorial fury that would do their Ancient proud. the Sabbat's is a point of honor, especially since they find themselves at odds with their own sect as often as they do the Others see them almost like folk heroes reclaiming some lost Camarilla. Some Fiends regardneofeudalistsasanachronisms native pride. Most archbishops, however, would prefer Lu pines infesting their cities to having a refeudalist move in next door. Few survive in the Final Nights, and fewer still survive for very long. EHSANGUINISTS

A blood cult exists within Clan Trimisce. Unlike most such cults, awash in oceans of vita, the Exsanguinists

00

D

CHAPTER TWO: EGO AND EVOLUTION

47

ennnan

have invented a dozen or so ignobles rite to avoid drinking blood for as long as possible. They consider feeding the act of an animal, not a deathless being on the threshold of something greater.

Thought to be an offshoot of a school of Metamor phosis, the Exsanguinist cult teaches methods of meditation meant to build up their endurance as they go for increas ingly longer times between feedings. They seek to distract themselves from their hunger by any means, usually by leaping headlong into whatever Sabbat cause strikes their fancy Some proselytize, but most Sabbat are too blood thirsty for the ascetic existence.

Exsanguinists perpetually skirt the edge of ravenous frency. They're given to making wild, fanatical declarations about the nature of undeath and reacting extremely to changing circumstances. Upon the capture of a Camarilla infiltrator within the city, one Exsanguinist bishop in Tijuana declared that Central America would fall within the hour, set histobes on fire and consumed the spy and himselfinaflaming embrace to emphasize the dire nature of the predicament. While a few Exsanguinists are placid buddhas, most are lip- biters ready to frenzy at the slightest provocation.

TZIMISCE ANTITRIBU

Those Cainites who have broken with their parent clan, especially those whose cousins have joined the Camarilla, fancy themselves antitribe and refer to them- selves as such. Trimisce have no need for such vanity. Since your time, most Taimisce have regarded their clan as an unlifestyle, rather than a family to appease. Trimisce have a reputation as ruthless, inhuman deviants because some aspire to be just that, not because we bear some affiliation with our brothers. As such, more of the clan exists independent of the Sabbar than we like to admit. Some rule demesnes and acknowledge no authority but their own. Groups of Tzimisce descended from one ances tor, like the ever-shrinking Oradea League, associate only with the same few relatives. Most, like the Old Clan, give lip service to the Sabbat and go about their business without regard to sect.

Even though many Fiends are independent, few asso- ciate with the Camarilla. While most of us are ultimately beholden to our dwindline humanity, the sect's emphasis on humanitas does not suit us. Truth be told, old one, most Cainites are too proud to acknowledge that we hide from mortals, abuse their institutions in the gentlest ways and do not harm our fellows lest our cities become disorderly. Every Cainite must do these things to survive for long, but most Trimisce would be embarrassed to admit it. I would have it no other way, ancestor why prattle on about weaknesses when immortality is at hand?

much like yourself, though even he understood enough to fear the power of men. He was an impatient, bitter corpse who saw the Jyhad in everything, much as I'm sure you do now that you've reawakened to this alien time. His paranoia led him to be an impatient Camite. Now that it is time to discuss the other lineages of Caine, I quote from my fondest remembrances of my twice-dead father-his mints-rendered as best I can remember them. ASSAMITES

Do not speak to me of the Assassins\! I despise them and their filthy paynim ways\! Oh, how they fright my heart with their lethiferous stares\! Are they Cainites at all? The Children of Assam have more in common with the soulless dead of the Orient, I say, and their nature con- Effort. Why suffer them at all? If some unpleasantness vinces me that the Black Hand will betray our Great demands expendables, do the Lasombra not suffice\!

their feet. Perhaps you are an Assamite, childe?

And when they enter a home, they forget to wipe

BRUJAH

After dealing with them-a labor regretfully neces sary given the prominence they attained since the Third Civil War-I am inspired to sponsor missionaries to their dancing in filth and feeding indiscriminately. The Beast wastelands, to teach them that immortality is more than

rules them utterly. A clan in need of discipline, these domains of old in every urban wasteland to pollute. Brutes. It must reassure them to reinvent their mighty

SERPENTSOFTHE LIGHT

Despite our nature, we must be honest with one another: Trimisce is a clan of rarefied tastes. Passions such as we know are only available in a seller's market. I know that you are not religious. Then hie to your Path, and eschew their seductions\!

At the Palla Grande, I am often disposed to lecture the young. I implore them to feed often, forbid their ghouls to touch their dinners and never believe the Serpents of the Light are any different from the bastard line which spawned them\! Their ultimate ambition is everything the Sword of Caine would prevent. Can we chance that the Cobras are sincere in their devotion to the cause?

GANGREL

Did you know these dogs come in two breeds? What new face will Caine's curse show us next? Ah, but you flatter me. No, I cannot claim the credit for this bifurca- tion that belongs to another of our line. But you asked me what I think of them, and the answer is "little."

Yet, I would suffer a Hunter willing to teach the rudiments of his earthy gifts.

PREJUDICES OF THE TWICE-DEAD HARBINGERS OF SHULLS

You missed generations of descendants in your slum- ber.oldone. My sine for instance-he was an anachronism

I have met only one, and at first, she seemed delightful company. Very knowledgeable about our kind. I advise

CLANBOOK: TEMEC

48

you to seek one out in all haste. You are inexperienced with them? Well, do not make my mistake when supping with a Lazarene, never offer to repair her visage. That faux pas has depleted my kennels and lead to some unfortunate complications in the conduct of my tae. I fear I shall never lead another Vaulderie.

LASOMBRA

Was it not the Trimisce who built the Sabbat? Did we not bring our elders low? Did we not shatter the blood bond? Who, do you think, conceived the packs? Why, we even gave freely of our sorcery that any True Sabbat might know the vitae\! And from the shadows, they stole the throne on which we should rightfully sit. Yes, it's true they vanquished their Ancient first, but damn it, we showed

them how-

OG

Well, no, I can't say they've done a horrible job, merely an inadequate one. But we are a clan of lords. Why then, are we content to play advisors? It is for me a most unpleasant rumination, and I would rather focus on my experiments. Their domination frees us to pursue our curiosities, after all.

MALHAVIANS

The Malkavians were the architects of the Tower of

Babel, I believe. They built an edifice that revealed the world from on high, as Heaven sees it. But the kine-god. ever jealous of the Children of Caine and their power to exist without Him, destroyed the tower and garbled the tongues of its creators. The Malkavians have seen Heaven, but they cannot describe it to others. Each speaks his own language, which we call madness.

NOSFERATU

My skin seems to have come off in the bath. Could you fetch my robe? Yes, the Nosferatu would be jealous of me indeed. Sadly, there is no helping the poor creatures. I would cure them were I able, but their curse proves so tenacious. Perhaps it comes from Trimisce itself, so old and powerful is its nature.

How could it be that they joined the Camarilla at all? Surely, their cause is ours as well. When the most ancient creatures of their line resurface, I have little doubt that they will flock to the Sabbat like rats escaping a flood. I have an unerring intuition of such things.

PANDERS

Oh, I see their use, but something within me sickens at the tolerance they now enjoy. Would a mortal mother allow a child to live if it were simple or deformed? Of what use would it be? In older nights, we treated the misbegot ten with that same objectivity. Now we call them "Panders" and recognize them as a clan. I do not understand these sentimental times.

Did you know that one is now bishop of some city in the New World? Gehenna draws nigh indeed.

RAVNOS

A shame, really. Too much has been made of the antagonism between our clans. I think of them fondly. myself. Yes, they are renowned as rude guests, but they aren't stupid. Our power was once so great that even the Gypsies asked permission to pass through our lands, and the villagers were too busy ninning them out of town to rally mobs against us. A pity they are so far spread now-

gine altering your surroundings to match the alter ations you've made in yourself\!

SALUBRI

They despise the Usurpers, and that is enough. I will offer them any aid I can. TORTADOR

errant children would nurse me back to health. If the I would set myself ablaze if I knew that one of these Vauldene did not prevent it, I would bind myself to one of the antibu, for they are exceedingly good at certain acts I'd like to experience regularly. After my visit to Montreal last winter, you cannot convince me that the Toreador do not seek their own form of Metamorphosis. TREMERE

the utter depravity of our times if ever I saw it\! Thieves\! The strongest clan of the modern nights-proof of Usurpers\! They are so strong only because our blood colors the Taimisce feel as though they've been robbed? Do not their veins\! Seeing their preeminence, do you wonder why suffer a witch to live\!

VENTRUE

Were we in charge of their ostentatious league of "Kin- our table and whisper curses when we turn our backs\! They dred," our subjects would praise us as worthy leaders, not share understand the duller portion of governance, and I wouldhave one as my seneschal, but they weary me with their "consump bucket\! The blood within me rises\! tive choices" and "considered political judgments." Fetch a

A final gem for your edification, old one THE LUPINES

I have undertaken quite an extensive study of the shapeshifters. Their classification proved difficult, since they breed like Brujah sire. We have, however, isolated several species: The North American Glassgnawer clan, for instance, is known to populate the cities, but their offspring invariably begin life deformed. Such cubs are universally infertile. How do they propagate? It is a mystery.

The Black-Star Walkers, kin to the Shadowed Lord complication, arising as they do from packs of ordinary clan that harried us in the Carpathians, mare with no such

wolves. A colleague believes that an offshoot of their line, one indigenous to the Scandinavia, worships the trickster

CHAPTER TWO: EGD AND EVOLUTION 49

god Loki. I reject this theory, for I find it inconceivable that such beasts practice anything resembling a religion.

PATHSOF ENLIGHTENMENT

too

In these modern nights, old one, most Cainites don't survive undeath for more than a decade. They have little time to learn anything of importance. These reckless, unlucky youth earn no understanding of our state many fall to their Beasts within nights of their creation. Among the few who survive, and the fewer still who come to understand something of the Curse of Caine, the most determined follow tenets based on understandings of undeath that they claim checks their Beasts.

Do you remember the Metamorphosists\! They are the clearest example that's within your arthritic grasp. They seek to undergo some transformation that dwarfs even the change from mortal to Cainite. Their methods spread like curses among black magicians. Masters teach students, childer imitate sires, zealots preach to any who would listen, and the curious always find a way to learn. Some believed the Metamorphosists were possessed, mad or foolish. Some feared their intimidating forms. But my sire's sire, your great-grandchilde Conrad Bukouskei, once told me that their numbers were amall. Few Tzimisce had the discipline to seek Azhi Dahaka.

Such things change slowly, but Metamorphosis is not the only Path walked by our kind. Others see enlighten- ment in the eyes of a fresh corpse or in the catholic pursuit of Caine. Some drown their Beasts in dutiful supplication, like the knights of your time. A few succumb to heresies like soul-pacts with the Devil or the emulation of Lilith. THE PATH OF METAMORPHOSIS

How best to explain the modem Path to someone who's never read Darwin...\! Those who follow the Path of Meta- morphosis seek to climb closer to Heaven and farther from humanity, though few of them believe in such a place. Unlike the Easter Buddhists imitating Siddhartha, Metamorphosists have few role models in search of Arhi Dahaka, the name given to this higher state by the eldest of Fiends Azhi Dahaka is not some Nirvana where the Metamorphosist achieves oneness with the universe, but rather the opposite-to undergo Metamorphosis is to completely separate oneself from Cre ation, to be a self-sufficient will in a universe that holds no more power over the ego.

Some believe so, anyway. Metamorphosis is a lonely pursuit Many Fiends on the Path refuse to share their wisdom or even mislead those who seek it. Can you imagine aparanoid sire teaching his childer "secrets" that invite their own Final Deaths? My own sire once told me, "Anger is the judge among the undead. If another Cainite enrages you, he offends the

CLANSOON: TEMICE 50

о

VIEWSON METAMORPHOSIS

Eat, sleep, shit, fuck, die-what a list of chores\! The Embrace delivers us from this drudgery, but still, we have our bad habits. Blood for one, and betrayal Metamorphosis surpasses the Curse of Catne. Metamorphosis is the end of necessity, the unfettering of the ego.

\- Peter Plogojowitz, Exsanguinist

The Path has no definite end. Metamorphosis is a sojourn. It's perpetual transition. Most people die like they live, waving their impotent little fists in the face of the universe. Not me. I've got places to go, metaphysically speaking. I don't look up to the stars in the sky. The stars look up to me

\-Arnod Paole, advisor to the Voivode

When you're safe in your own haven, surrounded by furniture you've built yourself that's Metamorphosis. Right now, I'm into working with lots of different materials. Children's bones are very malleable, but they don't bear much weight, so you have to use a lot of them. I'm very happy with this fainting couch I just finished; it cries when you sit on it, but I'll show it to you if you like

\-Ahriman Berney-Scott, feng shui enthusiast

No one can show you Metamorphosis. The condition is, by definition, lofty. And once you achieve it, I can only imagine that describing it would be like explaining parliamentary procedure to a mander of crows. I hesitate to call such a state "transcendental," since the word hears so many limited mortal notions. But\! assure you-Metamorphosis is utterly inhuman.

\-Troilus Cressida, ductus of the Golgotha's Nails pack

After discarding all vestiges of humanity, one becomes Tymisce itself - Azhu Dahaka

\-Laika, Taimisce koldun

CHAPTER TWO: EGO AND EVOLUTION 51

predator within you." That was the least of his lies, though I hope he found Azhi Dahaka under my fangs.

Some Metamorphosists aren't sostingy with their discov eries. A few traditionalists still remember the times when Metamorphosists were the rowing sages of the clan and met at "Black Churches" toconsult theirenlightenedfellows. Noddists have since usurped the learned reputation of the Metamorphosists among the youngest of Cainites explor- ing the modem Paths, self-mastery is less popular than the power of Caine. But teachers still exist in the more populous cities, some followers have even knud "sclub" of Meta morphosis to test their theories, leam from their peers and transmit their techniques to the young

For most Metamorphosists, physical change precedes spiritual change. Some believe, despite the obvious evi- dence of their undead existence, that no creature possesses a soul and that the Curse of Caine represents flesh run rampant, flesh liberated from the obliterating cycle of life and death. Others hold that the soul is just the body summarized. The dichard evolutionists (ask Ezra) believe that they must suit their bodies perfectly to their environ- ments, usually to the nighttime metropolis and their suspicious prey-human and Cainite alike. Regardless, most Metamorphosists rely heavily on the fleshcrafting arts of our clan to affect their transformations.

I do not know what these Metamorphosists were like

in your day, ancient one, but in the Final Nights, they seem to take whatever form they please. My sire, himself the childe of an Exsanguinist, saw self-sufficiency as the precursor to enlightenment-a lofty goal for a creature that depends on the life-blood of kine. He made increas ingly esoteric attempts to mold himself into a being that sustained itself efficiently. At first, be fashioned... ten tacles, that's the closest word to what they really were, from his lower intestines, each with its own mouth full of incisors. He kept himself attached to three ghouls at all times, constantly ingesting their blood. He quickly aban doned this form-even the hardiest ghouls dried up under his ravenous appetites. Instead, he crafted leaky mem- branes in the backs of his childer. Each night, he sent us out to feed. When we returned, he attached his hungry tentacles to us and claimed our blood for his own. Though the regular infusion of our blood made him a doting sire, I showed him that his offspring were not mere extensions of his undead organism. Such is but one example of the changes Metamorphosists inflict on themselves.

Metamorphosists see potential in the undead form. They strengthen their bones to weather crushing blows or sharpen them into pikes for impaling enemies. They relocate their vital organs to make their digestion of blood more efficient. They improve their eyes and ears to make them more sensitive to changes around them. Others rearrange themselves to conform to more esoteric con-

cepts, imitating many-armed Hindu gods or molding their bodies into forms accordant to feng shui

Others ignore the physical element and, instead, seek to exploit the peculiar nature of undeath. Some such Metamorphosists feed only on their fellow Cainites, be- lieving that an aversion to mortal blood is a sign of metaphysical superiority. Some believe that following certain precepts, such as "learn the characteristics of all stages of life and death," will lead them to a reward similar to that mythic Golconda.

Metamorphosists often face a different problem from those who walk other Paths: Rather than struggling to uphold the tenets of their Path, Metamorphosists struggle to discover just what those tenets are. Azhi Dahaka is a poorly lit road. While many Fiends encounter similar difficulties, the forms these difficulties take depend on the Metamorphosist. A Fiend attached by bloodsucking ten- tacles to his ghouls interprets the denial of his feeding urge differently than a Fiend with no mouth would. Metamorphosist philosophy is so diverse that informal schools have sprung up all over the world. These schools debate the matter eternally and instruct their students in their findings, each espousing a slightly different Path of Metamorphosis.

THE LESSER PATHS

Metamorphosists constitute but a small portion of Clan Trimisce. The vampires of the Sabbat know other Paths of Enlightenment. We Trimisce invented them, or

so we say.

Actually, there must be some truth to this claim Trimisce, more than any other clan, tend to discard their humanity in undeath; the conditions we're Embraced into often make it irrelevant-what's human about searching the spirit world for slumbering elders or performing experi ments to determine what happens to the souls of aborted fetuses? But Taimisce bow to nothing, not even the Beast, so the most tenacious turn to various Paths to deal with unlife. "Invented" is hyperbole, but inhuman packs of Trimisce were probably among the first practitioners of these ethical monstrosities. My research suggests that you missed this development by less than 200 years.

A few ignorant or abandoned exceptions exist, but we Fiends have the fewest adherents to Humanity of any clan. If not Metamorphosis, then, as some Exsanguinists call them, one of the "Lesser Paths."

THE PATH OF CAINE

Many Trimisce Noddists take a particular slant to- ward their investigation into the unlife of Caine- they do to theories what Vicissitude does to flesh. To an outsider, it might seem like they value the esoteric and the implausible over the accurate so that they may outdo competing scholars (the Taimisce who gain the highest

CLANBOOK TIMISCE

52

understanding of this Path must be patient indeed, given their low opinion of Noddists from lesser clans and the Path's tenet of sharing what one knows with fellow scholars). Usually, the unlikely nature of their conclusions is a product of their particular outlook. The Fiends aren't playing word games or trying to amuse anyone. They seek nothing less than the power of Caine itself.

While some Noddists squander eternity digging in the dirt or squinting at fragments of ancient scrolls, Trimisce in search of Caine favor diverse approaches- conversations with elders or spirits, memortes stolen through diablerie, bloodletting vision quests, the compo sition of dramas and stories to explore their history. sojourns to the Middle East and, yes, when appropriate, archacology and library research.

One circle of Trimisce Noddists known as the Reclaimationists contradict some Fiends' preference for cautious diablerie. Not content merely to know Caine's nature, they "reclaim" it by diablerizing their way through the generations to reach the stature of the Dark Father. The Reclaimationists consider Cainites who rely on mor- tal blood to be weaklings. They drink only Cainite vitae if they can. Reclaimationists take any opportunity to sate their appetites and often find themselves leading Wild Hunts or War Parties. Some spend their unlives in the zo form, more comfortable in their "natural" state, ready to purtake of the Amaranth with but a moment's notice.

THE PATH OF CATHARI

Trimisce who follow this Path set out to become the most potent material agents of the evil creator of reality. They craft themselves into forms as powerful and twisted as any Metamorphosist but don't concern themselves with the spiritual baggage of their transcendental rela- tives. To Albigensian Fiends, Auspex distracts Cainites with the ephemeral qualities of the good creator, but Vicissitude is an end in itself, not some road to a higher existence. Physical power suffices. Fleshcraft allows them greater influence of the material world, which, according to the Albigensians, is the Cainites' milieu.

Fiends walking the Path of Cathariall but worship the zhpans for their mastery of the zulo form. Becomingstrong and intimidating beasts also ensures their survival. Many Albigensians believe in reincarnation, and if anything disgusts the Tzimisce, it's the prospect of becoming mortal nguồn

The Path of Cathari has much to recommend itself to childer raised by traditional Trimisce sires-utter selfish- ness, vice and wealth for its own sake and revelry in the abandon of frenzy.

THE PATH OF DEATH AND THE SOUL

Inaway, the Tzimisce have always been Necronomists. Since their first nights, the Fiends have had those among them who made a study of death and limits of pain. The

CHAPTER TWO: ECO AND EVOLUTION 53

00

FROM THE GROUND Up: STORYTELLING METAMORPHOSIS

Given the possibilities of Metamorphosis, Storytellers should approach this Path a bit differently than others. In game terms, Metamorphosis isn't about starting with a high Path rating and avoiding descent into the jaws of the Beast Within. It's about starting near the bottom and haunting any information or developing any technique that will allow the Cainite to progress. In one sense, be flexible with the Hierarchy of Sins, because seekers ofAzhi Dahaka find different ways to implement its abstract ideals. But don't let them get away with anything-their progression along the Path should build upon what they have learned before. They can unleam some elements but not without questioning their actions (ie., making many Virtue rolls).

Finally, Storytellers and players should keep in mind that a rating in the Path of Metamorphosis doesn't necessarily represent how close a Cainite has come to the Azhi Dahaka. All it represents for sure is how well their beliefs subdue the Beast.

AN INFERIOR GOLCONDA

If the Path of Metamorphosis ends in Azhi Dahaka, then a Storyteller might wish to explore a story in which a character attains this state. What happens\! Rules wise, higher existences are tricky because hard-and-fast guidelines rob the accomplishment of its mystery ("If the character sees God, she may ask him 1d3 questions").

Metamorphosis raises the same issues as Golconda: If it's possible in your chronicle, how does a character accomplish it? By some accounts, undeath allows for only one definite state above vampirism. By others, it depends on the individual. What if Azha Dahala is just a metaphysical dead end, some change that confers a few benefits but is ultimately just advanced vampirism?

However the Storyteller decides to handle this question, achieving Metamorphosis should be more than earning a Path rating of 11. Certainly, any candidate for Metamorphosis must adhere faithfully to the Path, though some Trimisce consider its precepts limiting. The character might gain higher ratings ceilings than his generation normally allows (maybe 7 rather than the 10 allowed by Golconda). He might acquire advanced understanding of Taimisce Disciplines. Maybe Golconda isn't just a myth, and Metamorphosis is Golconda.

Keep in mind that that the Path predicates itself on being utterly inhuman and, ultimately, unlike the Curse of Caine does the character still need to drink blood or fear sunlight and frenzy? A final note: Since the state is so alien, it almost certainly causes several derangements and may well make the character unsuitable for play. Would a Cainite who just achieved a higher state of existence have anything in common with her former pack? If you're playing a character who might achieve Metamorphosis, talk to your Storyteller and discuss whether it would enrich the story or just snatch your character away at the moment of his ascension.

modern form of this study, codified into the Path of Death and the Soul, bears the mark of these ancient experiments. Most Cainites have little doubt that Fiends conceived this Path its design is unmistakably Trimisce-although every Cainite ponders death in his own way, the Necronomists regard it so... scientifically.

Necronomists tend to disregard conventional morali ties in their study of death. In the most violent Sabbat cities, the local Necronomists are more than happy to collect any corpses left over after a Blood Feast or indis criminate feeding. Some aren't above trading a favor to a Cainite skilled with Necromancy in exchange for the chance to ask their cadavers a few questions. The most knowledgeable seek out Noddists for information on the Cappadocians, an extinct clan that supposedly under stood the mysteries of life and death.

Though small in number, the Necronomists, the majority of whom are Fiends, have enjoyed increasing power in recent nights because of their association with the Harbingers of Skulls. Few Cainites had anything of

worth to give these skull-faced warlocks when they es caped their imprisonment. Such old Cainites had more to offer the Sabbat than the Sabbat had to offer them. Certain Necronomists had an understanding of the soul that impressed even this clan of death. Many Laurenes, versed in the oldest philosophies of the undead, converted to the Path of Death and the Soul.

The exchange of knowledge between the two groups has yielded more than academic benefits. With the threat of such venerable Cainites behind them, some Necronomists, formerly regarded as distracted intellectu als, have risen to become ducti or bishops. One was even confirmed through the Blood Bath as a priscus, who now exploits his travels as an opportunity to study fatal calami- ties all over the Western Hemisphere. He's dug through collapsed buildings in earthquake-shattered Mexico and picked smoldering skulls from forest fires in Colorado. I spoke to him at the last Palla Grande; he now seems bent on persuading the regent to form closer ties to the Giovanni clan-his investigations have lead him to believe that the

CLANBOOK: TIMSCI

54

MAT

family has some grand design that could benefit all of Caine's children.

THE PATH OF EVIL REVELATIONS

Soul, self, identity, ego-whatever it is, it's precious to the Trimisce. Few, then, throw away their most valued possession-the essential freedom of their existence- for whatever temporal power Hell's con men are pushing this week. Nothing's worth a Tzimisce soul. A Fiend desperate enough to resort to infernalism is beneath

contempt.

Of course, making a deal with the Devil is not always the same as selling him your soul. Kupala's Night comes to mind....

THE PATH OF THE FERAL HEART

The Path of the Feral Heart demonstrates the genera tional divide that grows between Tzimisce neonates and elders. Although older Fiends cannot believe that younger Cainites can master the Beast without a moral education, Trimisce Embraced in the Final Nights-especially those nomadic pucks that move from city to city-embark on the Path of the Feral Heart under the tutelage of many different Beasts who, like itinerant preachers, seek con- verts during nitae or crusades. Fortunately, most of their would-be students are too young to exist by such an esoteric philosophy. Some learn to act like Beasts, but few

master the Beast Within.

But to the young urban predators who do take up the Path in earnest, the Metamorphosis espoused by their elders is superstitious nonsense. These neonates believe that being a Cainite is already, in itself, a higher state of existence. The secret is not to transcend the Curse of Caine, but to master it.

Only the rare Trimisce advances far along this Path. But in some cities, particularly in Mexico, gangs of Trimisce, most of them veterans of the Second Sabbat Civil War, embrace the Feral Heart. They remind me of the packs that rated Thorns on the night of the infamous conven- tion. They share their blood with Assamites and Brujah and all manner of mongrel Cainites.

THE PATH OF HONORABLE ACCORD

Few Tanisce outside the Children of the Dracon follow the Path of Honorable Accord. Those who do are usually neofeudalists or the childer of traditional Fiends who joined the Sabbat out of necessity rather than sympa thy. To some Fiends, bravery, hospitality and punishment of the dishonorable are assumed behaviors, not a philoso phy that requires great focus to uphold. But voicing this opinion to Trimisce Knights can be perilous- the small number who still exist are usually very well connected to older powers within the clan.

CHAPTER TWO: EGO AND EVOLLITION 55

THE PATH OF LILITH

Cast out of Eden, you say? Pain is the greatest teacher, you say? Ultimate freedom and self-discovery, too\! If not for the fact that the Path is considered heretical even within the Sabbat, and that the Path rejects temporal wealth and power, Clan Tzimisce might have become Clan Bahari by now. Still, is it any surprise that individuals from a clan characterized as a bunch of mad scientists, Metamorphosists, perverts and scholars of eldritch lore might be attracted to the Fath of Lilith?

Lilin Timisce are the eccentric vanguard of our eccentric clan. These Fiends usually combine the most respected pursuits of the clan with their maligned follow ing of Lilith. They hunt down lore with a curiosity to rival any Noddist, raise their childer with the care of the most dutiful sire and seek an understanding of the universe that exceeds the ambition of all but the most obsessive Metamorphosist. To date, bloody disagreements between Lilins and those who revere Caine keep the numbers of

heretics to a minimum.

THE PATH OF POWER AND THE INNER VOIce

A Lasombra named Lord Marcus claims to have developed the Path of Power and Inner Voice in the 16th century. Is there anything the Lasombra won't steal from

the Trimisce\!

Look at the tenets of the Path-what Keeper has ever respected a superior or waited until he faltered before usurping him\!

Although some Trimisce Unifiers are neofeudalists, most Fiends who follow this Path preserve the outlook rather than the trappings of the Transylvanian soitodes. Driven by their Path, Fiend Unifiers are among the most powerful Trimisce in the Sabbat. They seek any position of authority, whether secular or spiritual. The numbers of pack priests and prisci who follow this Path rival the numbers of Unifier bishops and ducti

Anoteworthy portion of the clan's strength lies in the Unifiers-it is a great innovation of the Sabbat's that their most power-hungry members are also bound to respect their betters and treat their underlings well. While our clan is hardly the meritocracy that some make it out to be, the Unifiers keep the Tamisce tough and lean. Acquiring power isn't enough-one must also keep it.

REVENANTS

At least one aspect of our clan has endured: the servitude of the revenant families, those mortal lines that have home our blood for so long that they no longer require its constant infusion. If the mortal world frightens you, old one, seek protection from the revenants. Though their numbers are far smaller than you may remember,

their loyalty to our clan remains unquestionable, except- ing the odd rebellious child.

Since your time, at least, revenants have served the Fiends as caretakers, advisors, warriors and potential childer Though the mortal life span has lengthened during your slumber, revenamts still live far longer than mortals some revenant children know their great-great-great- great-great grandmothers. The members of each family still share a particular weakness of the blood. Different families exhibit different aspects of Caine.

Perhaps you can tell me how these revenant families come to be\! We have little to go on in these modern times. According to Wallachian folklore, some families were so evil that anyone who shared their name was cursed to serve devils. Since these families owned and cultivated so much of the tainted soil of the "land beyond the forest," some koldum believe that that they became bound to their holdings by greed or obligation. More scientific Fiends, like myself, believe that the constant ingestion of Trimmisce blood from birth to death for so many generations created the revenants. But Assamites and Giovanni, with do-

mains in lands untouched by indigenous land-spirits, have supposedly created their own families; how many ways can one make a revenant?

The mystery of their origins pales next to the mystery of their name. "Revenant" means "one who returns." When do revenants ever"return"? Perhaps they do so each generation without needing new Blood.

The standard explanation from the patriarchs of the telling the story. He was so useful to his lord that the noble families is the tale of a servant. His last rame depends on who's

wanted him to "retum" again and again until the end of the. world so that he would always have a capable servant. His descendents were the servant's vehicle to immortality Some

heretical Bratovitches tell a slightly different version of this story in which the family receives the Blood in exchange for teaching the Trimisce Vicissitude.

the revenant experiment and would see them destroyed as a threat to our sect's secrecy, the families still have their uses: They provide reliable hospitality to traveling Fiends. They produce the most suitable agents for dealing with the daytime world-szlachta are too warped, vozhd are useless outside their capacity as behemoth war machines, and ghouls unfamiliar the clan's ways are young and ignorant

Though some of our clanmates have grown tired of

they require too many years of remedial education. Revenants can exploit un-Blooded relatives of their fami lies as well-though they are not revenants, their heritage makes them exceptional mortals (more than a docen members of the 143-seat Romanian Senat are rumored to be related to a Bratovitch or Zantosa). Given enough time, who knows how advanced a species they can be come\! Finally, the revenants record the history that most of our clan is unconcerned with. In the ignorant Final

GLANBOOK: TIIMISCI

56

Nights, a few Obertus know more about the clan than many Fiends themselves.

Four revenant families and several minor lineages have endured to the Final Nights. Some of the families have met their fates, old one. Larger families absorbed the Narov and Ruthvenski. The Obertus, fearing a similar fate, use a surprisingly primitive method to ensure bal- anced numbers of male and female offspring so that too many daughters won't marry away the family name into obscurity. The last names Vlaszy and Khavi aren't entirely lost, but they are preserved only in revenants who received the Embrace. Another three families are so hated that the few Trimisce who remember them refuse to speak their names. It pains me too much to even write them-no doubt you already suspect their names.

BRATOVITCH

Colorful as peacocks, unclean as swine, mean as rabid dogs-the Bratovitches in a nutshell. They live out their extended lives on their dilapidated plantations in the South and rural estates in the hills of the North. Surrounded by quaint but dusty antiques, fimilies of Pratovitches work

together, eat together, fuck together, tend the hellhounds together and serve our clan together. Family is everything to the Bratovitches, even if all that togetherness leaves a few of them paralyzed and/or knocked up.

The history of our clan is the history of the Bratovach family. In feudal Europe, Bratovitches ruled many eastern demesnes. If the land was at war with its neighbors and theserts smiled when they died, chances were a Bratovitch held power. Though more Trimisce in those nights bore the name Santovich, Bratovitch Fiends constituted the majority in what is now Polandandalong the border between Transylvania and Wallachi. By their own account, they were the first revenant family, or at least the first the Trimisce didn't destroy within a few years of its creation.

When the Trimisce anarchs rebelled against their sires, the Bratovitch revenants sided with the voivodes. It really wasn't a tough decision to make some of the clan's most powerful elders were Bratovitch, and every child of the family had been told from birth that disobeying their masters was the only sin they were not allowed to commit.

But the Bratovitches hadn't reached such stature through suicidal obedience. When it came time to switch loyalties to the anarchs, they knew how best to make amends. They slaughtered every Bratovitch child who had been born since the revolt began. No young revenant would remember that the family had served anyone other than the anarchs.

Even in the Final Nights, the family serves the rebels, we whonow call ourselves the Sabbar Although Bratovitches are rarely lords of demesnes any longer, they have retained the bestial features of their ancestors-heads too big for their hunched bodies, mouths with too many teeth, tiny eyes arranged a bit too close together to avoid notice but that nonetheless wam of a cannibal intelligence.

While the Branovitches have forever lost the noble harbor kennels of hellhounds. Their keepers breed dogs status of nights past, they remain useful to us. Many estates for size and ferocity, then feed them meat laced with Trimisce vitae. The Bratovitches fleshcraft the resulting monsters to meet the needs of their clients, usually the Tzimisce who donates the blood or high-ranking Sabbat in need of loyal and alert guardians.

Not every Bratovitch tends the hounds. Although most traveling Fiends would rather dig their own tempo- rary grave than take shelter at a Bratovitch estate, the revenants of this family also serve as guides and trackers through the countryside. In the modern nights, few Trimisce traipse through the woods. When they do, they want someone at their side who knows how to avoid

Treasure Those who guard you,

who bear your blood as their strength. PROTECT THEM FROM danger,

and cherish them as your own.

FOR WITHOUT Them

you are naked before the sun

And helpless before your enemies.

CHAPTER TWO: EGO AND EVOLUTION

57

OG Lupines. And when it comes to a rural manhunt, the Bratovitches and their bloodhounds are bred for the job. GRIMALDI

I'm not sure that you've dealt with the Grimaldi-they became a Bloxxded family only a century or two before you fell into torpor. But I'm sure you dealt with Radu Bistri, the spokesmen for the Old World woivodes, Radu brought the family into the Blood to strengthen the clan's ties to the mortal world, and they continue to fulfill that role today. They understood the new economy that was overtaking Europe at the time. A few of Radu's contemporanes wanted to use the Giovanni family instead, but oh dear. Ask Era what happened to the Cappadocians while you slept - Radu insisted on the Grimaldi because the Giovanni had a reputa tion as thieves and double-dealers while the Grimaldi were regarded as upright and honest merchants.

Even in the Final Nights, the Grimaldi continue to involve themselves in the mortal world where we would find it distasteful. Within the cities that house their compounds, the Grimaldi have access to the highest mortal powers-positions in government, industry or the media. Though some Grimaldi claim this authority di- rectly, more often they advise it. Grimaldi advise mayors, editors in chief and board members of corporations

They marry those they can't advise. Grimaldi and Kennedy mingle their blood in America-Grimaldi and Duckworth in England. The high positions of the Grimaldi

revenants are useful to the Sabbat, but far more useful is their connection to those who share just a bit of our blood, the distant relations who profit from their superior breed- ing but remain ignorant of their august heritage.

The Camarilla upholds a Tradition known as "the Masquerade" a pact among Cainites to keep their existence hidden from humanity. Though some factions in the Sabbat find the Camarilla's obsession with hiding to be distasteful, we maintain our own Masquerade out of good common sense. Since you survived the Inquisition, I'm sure you understand this better than I.

This revenant family's most important service to us is to keep mortals ignorint of the Curse of Caine. The Grimaldi sustains our Masquerade wheneversmerecklesschildethreat ens to reveal us to the mortal world. An injudicious rumble with another pack, a sloppy feeding or a sighting of a Cainite using a Gift of Caine-the Grimaldi have concealed these and other truths from the kine

They bury the most obvious evidence of Cainites in the most mundane ways. A few years ago, a mortal in Boston witnessed one of our clanmates assume the blood form and wash over a car, drowning those inside. A respected reporter who does not go by the name Grimald but is of the Blood nonetheless received the police report within an hour of its filing from her lover in the police department. She called her contact at a national tabloid (a disreputable town crier, old one). The tabloid ran the

story two days later, and the world viewed it as a sensa tional fairytale. Her police contact "misfiled" the report. When it resurfaced several weeks later, the story was already dead. already old and, because it appeared in a tabloid first,

Still, some of the moral uprighmess for which the family was Blooded has withered under our care. Though their children are often sent to the best private schools,

they are expelled far too often for aggravated incidents ranging from ear hiting to hostage taking And a few upstart children reject their family's purpose, denouncing their family's fortune and their Tzimisce masters. They try to live as true mortals and make a great show of just how human they are by helming charitable foundations or becoming doctors or cut-rate attorneys that speak for the poor. Their parents are sometimes too sentimental to deal with them properly, though, thankfully, even the most rebellious Grimaldi understands circumspection.

Despite a few errant children, I have no doubt that the

Grimaldi are the most loyal of the revenant houses and that they will serve us until Gehenna arrives. Although they work in the interests of the Trumisce fust, the family is at the disposal of the Sabbat at large. Every Grimaldi is blood bound to a member of the Sabbat, not necessarily a Fiend, at an age convenient to the Cainite. These Sabbat usually hold some authority-a bishop, archbishop, priscus or the odd ductus or

pack priest of a famous pack. The regent even keeps a dedicated Grimaldi retinue in Mexico City to apprise her of goings-on in the mortal world.

If anything will challenge the Grimaldi's loyalty in the next few years, it will be the regent. One of the patriarchs of the family, bound to me 200 years ago, reports that the regent no longer bonds the children of the estate and refuses to feed her blood to the older retinue, though she has been far too eager to do so for the past several years. perhaps, or that she has contracted our clan's particular My revenant suspects that her blood has tumed to water, disease and wishes to keep it a secret.

OBERTUS

The smell of a clean room always takes me back to the first time I visited an Obertus estate. I remember that the air riptides over untextured hardwood floors that offer no sanctuary to dirt. This dry air (the Obertus regard humid- ity like we regard an uninvited guest) surfs over texts stolen from the Library of Alexandria, sold or donated to mon- asteries in Old Byzantium, again stolen from Orthodox cathedrals in that unmentionable time when the family fled Constantinople to places like Bucharest and Oradea and Sibiu-centuries later shipped in watertight trunks to the New World, packed with the care of a family that has witnessed history through a looking glass. These texts adorn the libraries of the Obertus-dustless, pre- served, eternal despite their ancient origins. Not even the Children of the Dracon may touch these perfect works

GLANBOOK:TIMISCE

58

unless they wash their hands and their servants surrender their cigarettes. In these matters, Obertus are obedient but insistent. Their estates are very clean.

Most Fiends know that a fourth revenant house serves their clan, some house of scholars that occasionally re- search obscure subjects for their masters. The koldun scratch their heads they don't remember instilling the Blood in them; the lineage must be an obscure one. (Mexico City hosts a Bratovitch estate, a Zantosa estate and two compounds full of Grimaldi, but no House Oberts.) A few Trimisce-the Voivode, the prisci, some Noddists, Metamorphosists and the odd Lilin know this family as the Obertus, revenants who serve as keepers of books, texts, artifacts and records that the clan has accumulated over the centuries. Toward the end of their lives, some Obertus write books of their own to add to the collection. The Children of the Dracon know the Obertus even more intimately the family serves them not only as archivists, but servants, protectors and their primary source of childer.

Dracon or no, the dutiful Obertus assist any Fiend who may have need of them. Such aid is a necessary distraction that devours centuries. Most of these revenants, in the family's obsessive way, would rather reread tommes they've already studied 50 times, playing cat-and-mouse with details they didn't know to look for a decade earlier.

Most members of the Obertus family develop an obsession to which they dedicate the centuries. Most, instructed in the barely explainable nuances of the world of Cainites since birth, fixate on supernatural studies- many explore the Curse of Caine, studying ancient gene- alogies or writing treatises on why certain clans are more adept at subduing minds than others. Many investigate more obscure topics: wizards, Lupines, extinct mystery cults and the end of the world.

Donot think that their loyalty is universal: A member of my pack, an Obertus in life, tells me that a few of her relatives, not the youngest or the oldest but a group that came of age when Social Darwinism was an acceptable topic for Sunday dinner conversation, prepare the way for Homo sapiens to become Homo obertus. Evolution results from climate changes and other selective pressures, but these Obertus foresee no great calamity-no Armaged don, Gehenna or World War III. Thousands of small calamities will suffice. Smog, AIDS, democratic capital- ism, crank, automobiles, asbestos and super-sized McDonalds meals already cull the weak. This environ- ment favors the hearty. To survive the modern nights, it helps if your mother and father can offer you the Blood of Caine. In that regard, the Obertus have what it takes to endure. The sages shall inherit the Earth.

For the conceits about being a well-Blooded family, it's doubtful that their ancestors were related at all. The "Obertus." or "the hidden." have served the Taimisce

since the nights of Constantinople as monastic clergy, keeping the faith that the Byzantine Cainites had built around themselves. Only the family itself knows how it came to Eastern Europe. Although they weathered the early Tremere-Trimisce struggles, isolated scholars were of little use in the nights of the Anarch Revolt. The eldest reversants of the Obertus, erudite historians of genera tional conflict among the undead, must have known that history favored the childer. They sided with the nascent Sabbat against their elders and, a bloody century later, abandoned their manses and monasteries in favor of the New World. When the Sabbat began its migration to the Americas, their learned servants were at the docks to welcome them.

Throughout New England and both South and Cer tral America, estates of Obertus prosper in quiet fishing villages and out-of-the-way hamlets, home schooling their children in the names of our hoary clan and its history. The older generations, weary of child rearing, continue the family's studies. The younger Obertus, the doting parents, await the night when their child finally "sers her mind on something" And if a few wayward progeny cannot find a study worthy of obsession... well, someone's got to do the wash

ZANTOSA

under the tongue because most of the veins-fucking Sex on rooftops. White slavery. Heroin injected

revenant veins-collapsed. Penthouse snuff films. Mur- ders of the rich and famous. Highballs and piano wire. Children mowed down by hit and run. Working girls taken by the ears. A thousand in cash for the cop to look the other way. The most powerful men in America gone totally sideways for a week and three days. Football in traffic and an appetite for horse meat. STDs passed around like joints. Dance to death.

These sins are more familiar to you than they may sound, old one. Sins of excess dominate the New World, and the Zantosa are addicted to them all. They are the Szantoviches you may remember, the aristocracy of the to. If the book of the nailed kine-god condemns it. Old World that never met a temptation it did not succumb

somewhere, a Zantosa treats it as sacrament.

Although I no longer see the appeal of such a lifestyle, 1 know that mortals enjoy such things. Perhaps it is a weakness of the Zantosa blood that they form habits so quickly.

Although some of my peers believe that their useful- ness to our cause has passed, their playfulness endears them to me. They have already taken the first step to transcending their humanity. They discard the usual mortality that most kine bear chained to their ankles. bauched road that few Cainites can traverse with such Some of them even follow the Path of Cathari, a de

success as these demi-undead.

CHAPTER TWO: EGO AND EVOLUTION

59

Many of my fellow Sabbat would prefer never to deal with humanity. Then let the Zantosa deal with the kine, I say. Although they often succumb to addiction, they maintain valuable connections to the mortal world. I have

often found it true of humanity that the more powerful the kine, the more he is ruled by unusual passions. The Zantosi know such people; they throw parties for them at their estates in New York and Mexico City--the jet-set Arab sheik that snorts a significant fraction of his country's GDP up his nose every year. The Viacom CFO who always has that thing up his ass. The mob capo who offers a share of the rackets in exchange for a mistress named Zantosa. The editor of the New York Times who collects photos that his paper would never, ever print. The Senator who staffs his meth lab with young girls from Indonesia and Para- guay. Allow these humans to indulge their passions discreetly, and you are their most valuable association: their dealer.

OG

tnditions. Although, to my knowledge, none has been seen for at least a century, some children of Trimisce still know (instinctively, my sire once said) the name voghd

GHOUL TEMPLATES

Belowane templates for the most common types of ghouls that serve Clan Trimisce. Some ratings differ slightly from those published in other supplements. Different Tzimisce build different ghouls. Besides, if the player or Storyteller has time, individual ghouls should probably be customized-a "generic" ghoul is no more realistic than a "generic" Cainite. In a pinch, use whatever templates you prefer.

HELLHOUND

Hellhounds are large dogs, mostly mastiffs, made ghouls to serve the Trimisce. In the Dark Ages, Trimisce took advantage of the hellhound's animal awareness and bred ferocity to protect their havens. Bratovitch revenants con

to give their dogs larger fangs, stronger muscles and, through technique known to the oldest Beatovitches, keenereyesight

and sense of smell.

Physical: Strength 4, Dexterity 3, Stamina 4 Social: Not applicable

I have heard that in your time, old one, more Trimiscetinue threedthem and sometimes use their fleshcrafting skills bore the name Szantovich than any other. Although some of our clanmates still grant the Zantosa undeath, the family now produces neonates for several clans of the Sabbat. The Toreador antituba, the Serpents of the Light and a few of the Hungarian Ventrue antitribu lineages now draw childer from the family that was once practically synonymous with our clan. The Toreador antitribe appre- cuate the smoke-it-or-fuck-it lifestyle of the Zantosa. The Serpents of the Light, like their parent clan, are hypno- tized by corruption and vice, and the Hungarian Ventrue are reminded of their Old World nobility whenever the Zantosa release more peasants for the hunt.

GHOULS

Although a vocal portion of the Sabbat views reliance on mortals as a sign of weakness, as I'm sure Cainites of your time did, many of the sect's members share their blood with humans and even less impressive species. The Trimisce are no excep- tion-although most of us prefer to use revenants for more complex tasks, the clan has a long history of relying onmortals as soldiers, bodyguards, butlers and test subjects. Given our mastery over the animal kingdom, we are not above using beasts, especially predators.

It is a common conceit that few Taimisce ghouls escape their servitule unaltered-thar their modifications forever distinguish them and fit them to their tasks. While this is certainly true of some of our brethren, the entire Cainite enterprise would be uncovered and extinguished if every Fiend lead an army of szlachta howling through the night. Some Tamisce fleshcraft their ghouls, but this is notable in that we are the only Cainites, as a clan, capable of performing such modifications.

That said, the arts of Vicissitude have not been lost while youslumbered,oldone. When it comes toour ghouls.noteven the youngest Fiends have been able to completely discard our

Mental: Perception 5, Intelligence 1. Wits 3 Abilities: Alertness 4, Athletics 2, Brawl4, Dodge 3, Empathy I, Intimidation 4, Stealth 2 Disciplines: Potence 2 Willpower: 6 Blood Pool: 4

Attack: Bite/5 dice, Claw/3 dice

Health Levels: OK, OK, -1, -1, -2, -2, -5, Incapacitated SZLACHIA

In the Final Nights, salachia has become a catchall term

forghouls fleshcrafted for use as bodyguards. Fiends mold these creatures to be soldiers or guardians, so they have any number of spikes, claws, serrated protuberances and other bodily implements of destruction. The template below describes just one variety of szlachta-most Trimisce with any skill at fleshcraftinggive their ghoulssignature deformities. Some also mark their property like a rancher marks cattle.

Humanoid Szlachta

Physical: Strength 4, Dexterity 3, Stamina 5 Social: Charisma 1, Manipulation 1, Appearance 0 Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 2, Wits 3 Abilities: Alertness 3, Athletics 1, Brawl 3, Dodge 2, Melee 1, Stealth 2, Survival 4 (Tracking)

Disciplines: Fortitude 1, Potence 1

Virtues: Conscience 1, Self-Control 3, Courage 4 Morality: Humanity 2

Willpower: 4

Attacks Most szlachta have bony protrusions, spikes or teeth that cause lethal damage.

CLANSOORTSEL

60

Health Levels: As per the mortal stock from which they were drawn. This is typically the normal seven health levels possessed by any (once) human being

Animal Szlachta

Physical: Strength 4, Dexterity 3, Stamina 4 Social: Not applicable

Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 1. Wits 4

Abilities: Alertness 3, Athletics 2, Brawl2, Dodge 3, Empathy 1, Intimidation 2, Stealth 3

Disciplines: Fortitude 1, Potence 2

Willpower: 2

Attacks: Bire/5 dice, Claw/3 dice

Health Levels: OK, OK, -1, -1, -2, -3, -5, Incapacitated.

VOZHD

Vozhd are gigantic amalgamations of ghouls, at least two stories tall and weighing almost six tons. Their very bodies are implements of destruction, covered as they are with mouths full of razor-sharp teeth, six-foot bone spikes jutting out at every possible angle and tentacles to draw prey into their reach. These creatures have little intelligence, are notoriously too enraged to control reliably and have but one use: to destroy everything in sight.

The creation of such a monstrosity requires at least 15 creatures, though some include well over 30. The Obertus library in New York City houses an account of avohd created from 100 ghouls contributed by six different Fiends.

Animals, as well as humaris, can be used to create these beasts. In the Old World, most Trimisce who knew the proper rituals used wolves, goats and falcons, even the horses and livestock oftheir subjects when other animals were scarce. Few Taimisce know how to create voghd in the modern nights, but mong the packs of Mexico City, rumors persist of titantic monstrosities composed of human bodies mingled withhouse- hold pets, sea creatures or thousands of smaller animals such in rats or snakes.

To create a wood, the Fiend fleshcrafts the ghouls to gether into something like a cohesive entity. Perhaps she forms all the ghoul's skeletons into one structure then wraps it with the ghouls' flesh and organs. Though the process can take months, the Fiend must hurry because these broken creatures, not yetone entity, require constant infusions of vitae to prevent death from shock. Still, a certain amount of prolonged suffering is necessary to give the resulting coghd the proper rage.

Once the construction is complete, the Trimisce feeds the ghouls a concoction of blood drawn from each of them, in effect creating a blood bond among all the minds that will eventually become the toghd. Building upon this bond, the Fiend must coalesce the Beasts Within into a single, albeit mad and imperfect, Beast. Traditionally, a kokhanic ritual creates this effect, though the ritual is almost unknown in the modern nights. A few Trimisce have gained such a sophisti cated understanding of the Animalism Discipline that they can bring about the same result.

CHUTER TWO: EGO AND EVOLITION

61

Even at the height of the clan's dominance in the Old World, few Trimisce knew the proper ritual and fewer still resorted to the creation of such uncontrollable wrecking machines. In the modem nights, even the most leamed Taimisce elders can count the number of toghd they know to exist on one hand.

Physical: Strength 8, Dexterity 2. Stamina 6 Social: Not applicable

Mental: Perception 1, Intelligence 1, Wits 2

Disciplines: Fortitude 4, Potence 6 (Note: immune to all powers of Dominate. Presence and Animalisen below five dots)

Willpower: 10

Blood Pool: 20/2

Health Levels: OK (x5),-1(x5), -2(x5), -5(x3),Incapacitated Attack: Strike/8dice+Potence; Bine 8dice, automaticon the tum after a grab, Crush/6 dice+ Potence, constrict thereafter Multiple Attacks: Voghd receive 10 extra dice to divide among multiple attack dice pools, though no individual attack may exceed the veghd's usual Dexterity + Brawl dice pool Abilities: Alertness 5, Brawl 2. Intimidation 6

Note: At the Storyteller's discretion, the sight of a sorhd may call for a Willpower or Rotshreck roll or a Wits + Occult roll (difficulty 10) to avoid a spontaneous derangement

DERANGEMENTS

Many Trimisce treat their ghouls like painters might treat canvases if they were free and available in unlimited supply. Few Trimisce consider the psychological damage their experi ments cause. Serving the Taimisce, or worse, serving as their labrats, causes some ghouls to develop severe mental disorders. Ghouls: Fatal Addiction lists some ghoul-specific derange- ments Included below are three derangements that Trimisce ghouls have a particularly high risk of developing. With the exception of Sexual Dysfunction, these derangements are also appropriate for Cainites.

Revenants have a high risk of developing these derange ments, not only because of their contact with Trimisce but their abusive childhoods as well. A revenant who grew up knowing that her father would bite off one of her fingers every time she misbehaved might become histrionic in the search for affection. Or she might have flashbacks of the right daddy hit off her pinkie for dropping a plate. She might be unable to trust a lover because of her father's mistreatment. If she eventually becomes a Cainite, she will most likely carry these

scars even into undeath

HISTRIONICS

Some ghouls sublimate their urge to escape or believe that their new powers entitle them to a certain amount of atten- tion. Ghouls who develop histrionics must be center stage in all situations. They affect extreme but shallow emotions or behave anddress provocatively. Each scene, a histrionic ghoul must spend a point of Willpower to avoid seeking the spotlight

SERVANTS OF THE BLOOD

Below are the Disciplines that the various revenants have access to and the weakness that afflicts each family. For more information on revenants, see the Guide to the Sabbat (pp. 216-219) and Ghouls: Fatal Addiction.

Bratovitch

Disciplines: Animalisin, Potence, Vicissitude Weakness: The Bratovitches are a tem peramental bunch. Their impatience rivals that of the hotheaded Brujah. They tend to upset or offend well-adjusted mortals with their rabid demeanor. Raise their difficulties to resist frenzy by two.

Grimaldi

Disciplines: Celerity Dominate, Fortitude

Weakness: Grimaldi serve not just the Fiends, but the Sabbat at large. To ensure their loyalty, every member of the family is blood bound to a True Sabbat of some authority.

Obertus

Disciplines: Auspex, Obfuscate, Vicissitude

Weakness: A family of unbalanced intel- lectuals, most Obertus have obsessive/ compulsive disorder (Vampire: The Masquer ade, p. 222) or a similar intellectual derangement.

Zantosa

Disciplines: Auspex, Presence, Vicissitude

Weakness: Zantosa make easy marks for temptation. Members of the family cannot spend Willpower to resist supernatural enticements to pleasure. Regardless of the source of the temptation, a Zantosa must succeed on a Will- power roll (difficulty determined by the Storyteller) whenever he particularly enjoys an experience. Failure indicates that the Zantosa becomes addicted to the experience and obses sively seeks to relive it as often as possible.

in some way. If his quest for recognition is unsuccessful, he cannot spend Willpower, raise his difficulty to avoid frenzy by three for the rest of the scene.

Vampires develop this derangement as well. A childe might subconsciously rebel against the indifference of a sire. An old Canine who lacks the status implied by his age might become obsessed with being noticed. A Nosferatu might overcompensate for his hideous appearance or even for spend- ing too much time Obfuscated.

CLANBOOK: TEMSCI

62

Players beware: This derangement isn't a license to hog every scene, then write it off as roleplaying. Histrionics are hypersensitive to the opinions of others, not oblivious to the das of the cod as they enact some pick a Histrionic cases are pathetic, and most people recognize them as such the first time they flash their shit-eating grins or refuse to leave the stage. A histrionic might latch onto one person the entire evening and pester her for every ounce of attention. He might become sullen or leave in a huff if he believes that someone has upstaged him. If your Storyteller allows this denargement, roleplay it as the emotional disorder it is rather than an excuse to be obnoxious.

POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER

Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) arises in response to severe trauma such as combat, rape or servitude to a Taimisce. A ghoul who has been the subject of his master's latest experiment with superdermal bone art or witnessed his hungry master devour his mortal family might develop this derangement. PTSD can even afflict vampires, perhaps those who survived a Lupine attack or awoke one night to find their havens on fire.

Symptoms manifest as recurrent, debilitating flashbacks and extreme avoidance of situations likely to recreate the initial trauma. The player of a ghoul or Cainite afflicted with PTSD must spend a point of Willpower for her character to enter such situations. If compelled by a blood bond or other forms of control, the sufferer's player cannot spend Willpower to gain automatic successes on any rolls, and all of the character's dice pools are halved (rounddown). In any circum- stances, botched Willpower rolls or other stimuli deemed appropriate by the Storyteller induce flashbacks of the mu matic episode with the same penalties described above. Ghouls laboring under this disorder are typically disposed of by their domitors. Clan Taimisce requires servants made of stemer stuff.

SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION

A ghoul who spends any time in the thrall of a Tzimisce domitor is likely encumbered with a variety of sexual dysfunc tions. Female ghouls typically developvaginismus, involuntary contracting of the vulval and rectal muscles preventing penetration, or dyspareunia, severe pain during intercourse. Males, if not rendered completely impotent, sometimes fixate sexually on acts favored by their domitors. All such conditions are likely to instill an extreme aversion to sex, further separat ingghouls from the lifestyles they lead prior to their servitorship Before allowing this derangement, Storytellers should consider whether its inclusion will make any players uncom fortable. Many people prefer not to explore such personal issues in detail, especially during a game. Although the setting is a suitable venue for such unpleasanmess, you can challenge your players without resorting to poor taste. These caveats in mind, this derangement can be played without mentioning graphic details-Storytellers can extrapolate the likely effects

such a condition might have on a ghoul's relationship with his or her partners.

KOLDUNIC SORCERY

Koldunic Sorcery used to be the province of a few Old World kolden. Now, the art trickles down through the gener tions. Even a few neonates know the ways

Why have we resorted to teaching children our magic?

It depends on whom you ask. The current Vonde believes that the old kokken did not volunteer their wisdom. Instead, a pack stole their secrets and disseminated them haphazardly, perhaps to deprive some elder the fearsomeness he wielded as the proprietor of forbidden knowledge. Mem bers of the consistory think that the destruction of the clan's most powerful koldim prompted the surviving sorcerers to find students, lest their craft disappear just as Gehenna unfolds

Koldunun has always been a young Cainites art, though when it was last widely practiced, long before you fell into torpor, the youngest Cainites were members of the Sixth Generation. Neonates, wide-eyed and newly undead, cling to no myopic opinions about the nature of reality and have yet to fortify their emotional walls against the spirit world. The voice of the land speaks more clearly to the young, as it did to Lugoj and Velya.

Koldunic Sorcery hinges on five major paths, or ways the Ways of Earth, Fire, Water, Windand the Spirit. The "obscure ways," the paths known to few koldim even in blood magic's nights of prominence, have resurfaced amid the holdin revival of the Final Nights Astaras the clan Vokode and other Taimisce elders know, no ancient koldin has risen from torpor to teach these ways anew. Rather, it the neonates, the dwindling legacy of Caine, that have resurrected these dead arts. Some Fiends believe that the youngkold learn from the spirits themselves.

Asthe numberofkokhn grows, their ritual repertoire grows as well. Noddists unearth forgotten rituals every few months, but even this pace fails to satisfy some of the new koklim. A few prodigies now work to inventing rituals of their own. THE WAY OF SORROW

From Krochina, a goddess of mourning depicual as a perpetually weeping woman, to Likho Onoglaoye, the emaciated one-eyed hug who represented privation and suf overseeingstarvation, misery, misfortune, bitterness anddeath. fering, the pantheons of Eastern Europe brim with deities Whether thegods hear their names or the spirits merely attend Sorrow can invoke the most dismal powers of the divine. This their mention, a koldhan who understands the obscure Way of way pays no heed to gods of revelry or plenty, only those whose attentions promise tragedy.

the kokhan's Manipulation, but the difficulty for each of the Like the Way of Fire, the Way of Sorrow is governed by powers is the victim's permanent Willpower rather than the

CHAPTER TWO EGO AND EVOLUTION

63

usual 4+ the level of the power. In addition, a victim may spend a point of Willpower to overcome a particular effect of this way but is still vulnerable to subsequent uses of the Discipline.

A final note: Dealing with forgotten gods requires propri ety, especially those who govem such bleak concems. If invoked incorrectly, the Way of Sorrow turns on the koldim. On a botch, the Fiend suffers the effects of his own power as if she had scored five successes.

MET Systems: When you inwke any level of the Way of Somow, you spend one Willpower Trait and make a Social Challenge against your opponent (and use the Kokhunism Ability for retests). If your enemy successfully overbids against you, though, you suffer the effects for five full tums. Generally, if an effect lasts for a number of turns, it takes effect as soon as you use it and lasts based on your turns-that is, if you invoke power on an enemy for one tum, it takes effect as soon as you finish the challenge and lasts until the beginning of your next turn. Count bused on full turns, not on actions, just in case you have multiple actions in a turn (such as from Celerity). The opponent may expend one Willpower Trait to resist an emotion-influencing effect of the Way of Sorrow, but this does not grant immunity to the Discipline; that is, the target may shrug off a given effect, but could be attacked with it again in the next turn.

THE FRUSTRATIONS OF NESTRECHA

06

Named for the goddess of grief and failure, this power allows the koken to rob an opponent of his resolve. The koldier's stare saps the target's will to struggle. Although the victim is overcome with a resigned pessimism or feelings of defeat, he can still take action to resist the lolden, including combat, but only in a half-hearted or fearful way. He masters none of his usual passion or determination.

System: The kakhm's player spends a Willpower point. Roll the koldim's Manipulation+Koldunism (difficulty equal to the victim's Willpower). For one tum per success, her target's player can't spend Willpower points to activate Disci plines or gain automatic successes. In storytelling terms, the victim might also lack strong motivations or convictions for the power's duration ("What difference does it make?" or "I just don't care anymore"). For this power to be effective, the kokhm must make eye contact with her victim.

MET System: Make eye contact with your subject, and perform the usual expenditures for the Way of Sorrow (if you have problems with people goingtoridiculous lengths toavoid eye contact, you should look into whatever solution you've opted for Deaminate). If you best the target in a Social Chal- lenge, then the victim can't use any Willpower Traits to activate any Disciplines until your next tum. When your next num comes, you may (as a reflexive action) expend a Social Trait and test again to sustain the power against the opponent (assuming it succeeded the first time); you don't need eye contact to maintain the power in this fashion. Once you fail a successive Social Challenge or decide not to maintain the power, it ends immediately.

CANBOOK: TZMISCE 64

3

OPRICHNIKI

The Oprichniki, the vassals of Russia's Tzimisce, can trace their origins down to the year. It was 1565 when Ivan Grozny-Ivan the Terrible as history would later lament-divided his Russian kingdoms and named his secret militia after his principality Oprichnina. During those years, these mortal merce- naries served as cutthroats to a mortal devil; only Vlad Tepes could match Ivan's reign of blood. The Oprichniki, in turn, carried out Ivan's orders, per forming acts of terror against the populace, flaying anyone who complained too loudly and boiling the

czar's enemies.

The Oprichniki barely survived the reign of Ivan the Terrible, for they suffered his ministrations as well. He turned them upon each other in his final years, and only the vilest of their lot survived. The

EG

Russian Trimisce took them in and used them as vassals over the remaining century. Surprisingly, the Oprichniki eventually became revenants, even though they never once served upon the Carpathians" blighted soil. Fiends theorize the Oprichniki cursed themselves by serving Ivan the Terrible, though this is more fable than fact

Even before the rise and fall of the Iron Curtain, the Oprichniki were a well-kept secret, especially from the younger Transylvanian soivodes. The Russian Fiends desired the Oprichniki to be their henchmen and major-domos, whether they served as vassals, interme- diaries, mouthpieces, bodyguards or cutthroats. As such, the Trimisce train the Oprichniki from birth to fulfill a variety of assignments and duties.

Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, the Trimisce are finally free of both Brujah idealists spouting proletariat rhetoric and the superstitious elders of the Camarilla casting dubious eyes toward the obviously exceptional skulkers in darkness main- tained by the Fiends. With the borders relatively open, the Oprichniki remain hidden from the major- ity of the clan, serving independent Russian Trimisce and those affiliated with the Oradea League.

Disciplines: Animalism. Obfuscate, Vicissitude Weakness: The Oprichniki drawback manifests more as a curse than a weakness. All revenants from this family, regardless their ethnic background, suf- fer at the hands of at least one ghost as per the 3-pt. Supernatural Flaw Haunted (see Vampire: The Masquerade, p. 302). Russian koldum believe the ghosts are the victims of Novgorod, a Russian city that the Oprichniki decimated in their mortal years Ivan's assault against Novgorod resulted in the mur- der and torture of thousands of innocent civilians, a crime the revenants carry with them. Even if an Oprichniki finds a way through Disciplines or magic to rid himself of his ghost, another always takes its place. Thus, the curse forever follows the revenants.

CHAPTER TWO EGO AND EXCLUTION

65

THE INSULTS OF KRIVDA

Any Fiend worthy of the name can spit outa telling insult But with this power, Krivda- a goddess of hatred and bitterness ensures that the remark offends, enraging the recipient. In the Tamisce-Tremere conflicts of nights long past, oldun carried Krivda on their tongues, inciting their Usurper opponents to frenzy. They preferred to deal with angry fangs instead of calculated Thaumaturgy. This is a dangerous powertouse, but it can unbalanceaphysically weak opponent who has access to powerful Disciplines or could be used to embora a Cainite by causing him to frency in public.

System: After her player spends a Willpower point, the lokum insults the target in the most offensive and humiliating way she can conceive. The kollan's player rolls Manipulation +Koldunism (difficulty oqual to the victim's Willpower). If the roll is successful, the target flies into an uncontrollable rage and assaults the kokban. If the target is a vampire, he must immediately roll to resist frenzy (difficulty 5+ the number of successes on the activation roll).

MET System: Address your victim with some sort of offensive curse as you expend your Willpower and make your Social Challenge. You must roleplay some form of insult and offense-if you do not, the power fails automatically. Older Trimisce might lay out positively Biblical-sounding curses, while young Taimisor could flay the ears with a gangbanger's lingo. If you perform appropriately and win the Social Chal lenge, your target immediately flies into a rage and attempts to attack you. In his next turn, your victim must make some sort of physical attack against you if at all possible. If the foe is a vampire, he may resist with a Self-Control Virtue Test (diffi- culty of 4 Traits), but if this falls, enters frenzy (which typically Lasts at least five minutes).

... THE WEEPING OF KRUCHINA

The glare of akokoncan make someone so miserable that they do nothing but cry. This power does more than spill a few tears-it causes hysterical bawling, wailing and gnashing of teeth. Some depressing notion overcomes the victim. Vam pires might moum their lost humanitas or the passing of lovers who died longago. Sometimes the source is more nebulous- John believe that it imparts the collected sorrow of their demesnes' sickened soil.

System The kokhan's player spends a Willpower point and rolls the kelder's Manipulation - Koldunism (difficulty equal to the victim's Willpower). For one tum per success, the target is overwhelmed by intense misery and cries uncontrol- lably. Actions that require concentration are impossible for the power's duration. Cainites lose a blood point each num as copious amounts of vitae stream from their eyes.

MET System: Make your Way of Sorrow test againstone opponent if you win, the subject is overwhelmed with misery and breaks into hysterical sobbing. Although the target might still be able to run away, defend himself or the like, the concentration required for mitiating any Mental or Social

Challenge becomes impossible. You may extend the power with additional reflexive Social expenditures and tests, as described for The Frustrations of Nestrecha. Each tum that a vampiric opponent spends under this power results in the loss of one Blood Trait due to copious weeping of vitae.

THE MISFORTUNE OF CHERNOGOLOV With a declamation that a person is doomed ordestined to fail, the kolden summons the attention of Chemogolov-the silver-mustached god of misfortune-to her victim. Under Chemogolov's unlucky gace, he is hindered in everything he does. If he fails, he does so spectacularly.

System: The koldin's player spends a Willpower point and rolls the ladin's Manipulation+ Koldunism (difficulty equal to the victim's Willpower). For one tum per success, the target automatically loses two successes on every roll be

THE QUICK AND DIRTY GUIDE TO CREATING GHOULS AND REVENANTS

Here's an abridged version of the character creation process for ghouls and revenants. For complete information and new Abilities, Back- grounds, Merits and Flaws specific to ghouls and revenants, see Ghouls: Fatal Addiction.

• Step One: Character Concept Choose concept: ghoul or revenant. (Revenants only) Choose a revenant family.

Step Two: Select Attributes

Prioritize categories: Physical, Social, Mental (6/4/3).

Step Three: Select Abilities Prioritize categories: Talents, Skills, Knowledges (11/7/4).

Step Four: Select Advantages

Choose Backgrounds (5), Disciplines (Potence 1 and one dot in another Discipline, see below) and Virtues (7, or 5 for Sabbat ghouls and revenants). Ghouls: Choose a Discipline known to your domitor.

Revenants: Choose a family Discipline.

Step Five: Finishing Touches Record Virtues, Humanity/Path of Enlighten- ment, Willpower and Blood Pool.

Spend freebie points (21), all freebie costs are the same as for vampire characters except that Disciplines cost 10 per dot.

Note: Revenants produce one point of vitse per evening. This blood cannot create vampires, ghouls or blood bonds. Revenants have a maxi- mum blood pool of 10, plus one for every full century she's existed.

CLANBOOL TIMISCE

66

attempts. Borches experienced under the effects of the Misfor tune of Chemogolov should be especially disastrous

MET System: When you call down The Misfortune of Chemogolov and speak an appropriately doom-saying phrase, your opponent immediately suffers a two Trait penalty on initiating and resolving any challenge. Thus, the enemy must nsk at least three Traits just to enter any challenge and loses every additional Trait risked on a failed challenge. Further more, the subject is more likely to fail any test due to the penalty Traits. This is cumulative with injury or other penal ties that inflict the victim.

THE STARVATION OF MARENA

By invoking the wife of Kupala, the koldin summons the cold and starvation that is the domain of Marena. A frosty gale blasts the victim and leaves him emaciated as if he had just survived the coldest of winters. The frostbitten and starving victim clings to (un)life, usually in no condition to contradict the koldim. The cold symbolizes of the passage of time in harsh

conditions.

System: The kokian's player spends a Willpower point and rolls her Manipulation + Koldunism (difficulty equal to the target's Willpower). For each success, the victim takes two levels of bashing damage that can be soaked normally. In addition to this damage, vampires lose one blood point for each of the koldin's successes-healthy prey was scarce in the Eastern European winter.

MET System:: Invoke the name of Marena, and make your Way of Sorrow challenge against the victim. If you win, the subject suffers two levels of bashing damage (one in compressed scale) and, if a vampire, loses one Blood Trait Additionally, if you have more Social Traits than the oppo- nent, your effect may be more lethal: For every two current Social Traits that you have over your victim, score another two health levels of damage and one Blood Trait loss. (If your opponent has more Social Traits than you, there is no penalty other than the possibility of an overbid.)

Enough, Methuselah. I have said enough. I leave you to the fate the modern nights hold in store.

OTHER DISCIPLINES

Trous Cressida

Oslo is a shithole. After receiving your letter, Methuselah wished to reply. He dictated, I translated. I've cleaned up his idiom where I could. His fangs are so dull, sire.... Please send for us soon.

\-Ели

Descendant:

In the fulfillment of your Blooded duties to me, you have denied this youngest generation their due. You wrote of them with such contempt. I have moved among them and wit- nessed theirways. They are hardly the "Mongols" you describe. Thave met doctors and men of science, a pack priestess who

spoke until the Sabbat's cause sang through my veins - though I am one this jealous generation would destroy, had\! revealed my age. Even your Ema has impressed me. Its craft would make the Black-Churchers jealous.

But such is the extent of my generosity with others. I shall be far less generous with you. You treated me contemptibly as well and wrote in such familiar tones. Do you think this is my first time to awaken from a long sleep\! For this shabby treatment, I keep your childe. Next time, I will feed you to it piece by piece. Those who suffer undeath after my Blood should treat me well.

You have many things to do, grandchilde. I have always known that a Canine's years are measured in the mastery of his Disciplines. Mortal vogue means nothing to those who can walk the spirit world and subdue the hunger of wolves. You

have responsibilities as my descendant. First among them is to be worthy of my Blood. Until your mastery matches my own, you would do well to feat me.

In answer to your question, I looked to Hell -Methuselah

ANIMALISM

When Trimisce became master of the beasts, it became master of the land. So do not greet the animals like a fellow animal. Greet them like a king coming to court. So too the Beast Within, which every Trimisce should master. I have read of your Paths of Enlightenment and find them too demandingfor most of our kind. What the few can accomplish with obscure philosophies, the many can accomplish with this gift from Caine

Our own Animalism eases truck with peasants. Those who have practiced it are soothing to animals, and such soothing is the stuff of mortal terror. Animals are inconsistent things, accustomed to fright at anything because that is their nature. Evenachildcanscare acat. Farmore terrible is the man who bends down so the wolf can lick his face. Mortals are more consistent. If no animal avails itself, find the haughty man among them, the one that mortals fear, and Cow the Beast within him. His entire village becomes docile as well.

Cainites do not bow so easily, and such power is useless against them. If you can, call beasts to your aid, but mind that wolves do not scare them. Far better to cacape in the flurry of 100 birds and leave the wolves to harry trespassers away from your lands

Ema tells me that you seldom leave your haven. As it tells me, your many mouths leave you unpalatable to the mortals you hide among. Then use the beasts to be your eyes in the living world. Ravens are clever observers, and any dog can follow a scent. If you can Subsume the Spirit of the creature, then you will have no need to extrapolate from the simple reports that animals by nature give. But when you ride a beast, ensure that you have ghouls or childer to watch your slumber- ing form. Ensure that they do not want to taste your blood,

CHAITER TWICE ECO AND EVOLUTION 67

Auspex

When Trimisce learned to see the world as it is, he became a seer worthy of Caine's notice. The blood of the greatest prognosticator sustains every Trimisce, and when last I awoke, those of us with the sight were given to visions as our Founder was

Our ability to see is what lends us advantage against the lesser clans. You will understand that it is the greatest gift Caine bestowed on us the first time a shadowed Nosferatu intrades in your manse. Andisturbances in the secret forces aroundus confuse Toreadors and Malkavians. Their brainsure awash in madness, and the swirls of secret forces overwhelm them. A Trimisce, naturally focused and aware by Blood, can use this confusion for escape or a final blow cheaply eamed. Beware that Tremere are similarly focused and aware.

Ems has told me that your lab overflows with experiments in progress. If so, you have no doubt already realized the benefits of sensitivity. One needs to feel the texture of one's sculpture's skin and hear the discordant pitches of a tortured scream. Likewise, any gaps in your learning can be filled over time by scouring the thoughts of those whoalready know the methods, adding their knowledge to your own. Embolden your will- most things worth knowing reside in the heads of Cainites.

Long, long ago, before my first slumber, the childer of Trimisce's childer held duels among themselves in the spirit world, wagering their own blood on the outcome. I have always regretted that this practice did not endure beyond the rise of the Muslims. Although too few possess such mastery. the spirit walker must be prepared to answer when a Tremere comes slicing after his silver chord.

VICISSITUDE

When Trimisce achieved enlightenment, it became the vitae that now rests in your veins.

So don't be sloppy with it. Our clan alone was gifted with this power because Trimisce hands are never untrained. We alone possess the resolve to move beyond competence to nastery. But one must be fast as well as capable-a crude rending of flesh is a distraction, a rib through the heart is as good as Final Death.

In these modem nights, even the youngest has access to the most complete anatomical understanding though our clan sometimes leamed such things long before the mortals and understood some truths that mortal science is not yet of a mind to accept, the crafters of my early times lacked this precision. They understood how muscle attached to bone, but even Igawk at the simple intricacy of the your lately discovered "nervous system." In this regard, I almost envy the young....

Ontoamore practical matter. Vicissitude is the best whip that a domitor cari brandish at his ghouls. The threat of alteration suffices for most. If some offense requires purush ment, marthe vain and shorten men of stature. Whenaghoul persists in its attachment to the world of mortals, your craft can

render him a pariah among his kind. Likewise, a ghoul that is too weak to tote your bales, remold him for strength. In such away is the master kept happy and the servant allowed to live.

I have survived through times when I had Tremere blood in my mouth every night. In those nights, the fearsome fared better than the beautiful. Serrated bones to saw through the chest into the heart and fat padding the vulnerable places lookedunseemly, though lowe my continued existence to their use. But I do not understand the modem enchantment with twisted monstrosity. I have seen creatures of such beauty that they inspire worship among mortals. Do you realize the glory of perfect symmetry? The best Trimisce find symmetry of another sort forms built for both beauty and destruction. But when one has mastered the do form, one can er toward beauty.

No matter how prepared for love or war, Trimisce should strive to become simple blood. If a Trimisce can achieve the bloodform, no stake can pierce his heart. The smallest crack is an open doorway. A Trimisce trapped or imprisoned for weeks can sustain himself on his own form. To wash over a mortal can inspire a whimpering panic, if not death from sudden fright. A Cainite likely frenzies.

The young ones I have spoken with tell me that "V- positive Licks" develop the Eldest's own reliance upon his "ego."I prefer my own terms: How much greater is the Cainite who bears an Antediluvian\!

Get to work, Trails Cressida. The time approaches when I come to test you myself

DISCIPLINE POWERS

ECSTATIC AGONY (VICISSITUDE LEVEL SIX)

For a Trimisce who can experience Ecstatic Agony,poin becomes power. The more wounded he is, the more potent he becomes. The Fiend delights in every slash, punch, bullet or burn and channels his pain into physical prowessor incredible displays of Caine's Gifts.

System: After the player spends two Willpower points. the character becomes even more powerful when experienc ing pain. For all non-reflexive actions involving a Physical Attribute or use of a Discipline, add his wound penalties to the dice pool. For example, add two dice at the Wounded health level. As the character heals, this bonus wanes Treat Inca pacitated and Final Death normally. This power lasts for one

scene.

MET System: You must spend a Willpower Trait to activate Ecstatic Agony. For the duration of a scene, you gain two bonus Physical Traits for each health level of damage you suffer in combat, you can raise your Physical Trait pool above your normal generation limit. Heal yourself, and you will lose any and all bonus Traits eamed through this power. If you possess any ability to ignore the wound penalties you receive in combar, you gain no added benefit from Ecstatic Agony.

CLANBOOR: TZMISCI

68

EVE OF THE SZLACHTA (ANIMALISM LEVEL SDX)

Any Fiend who's been around for a while knows how to possess a lowly beast, but a few can ride any ghoul who shares their blood. By locking eyes with the ghoul (and yes, both parties must have eyes), the Fiend can transfer his soul into the creature, while his body falls into a state resembling torpor Although some Taimisce consider such intimate contact with their servants distasteful, sometimes it's necessary to calm a rampaging word in a disposable vessel or to "fleshride"a ghoul who can speak and open doors.

System: Use the system for the Animalism 4 power Subsume the Spirit (Vampire: The Masquerade, pp. 148 149).

MET System: You can impose your indomitable will onto one of your ghouls by spending a Willpower Trait, thereby merging the two souls together. Each Mental Trait you spend increases the strength of this connection, listing for one night.

Simple Possession

1 Trait

2 Traits

3 Traits

4 Traits

5 Traits

Can use Auspex

Can also use Animalism and Domi- nate

Can also use Vicissitude

Can also use Koldunic Sorcery, Nec- romancy and Thaumaturgy

MERITS AND FLAWS

Whether Trimisce like it or not, they carry a germ of the gestating Antediluvian inside them. Between it, Vicissitude and their often-strange habits, there are unique Merits and Flaws to personalize each Fiend. As always, this section is entirely optional and pending Storyteller approval. This information is not gospel or dogma.

PAIN TOLERANCE (2-pr.PHYSICAL MERIT)

Maybe you've deadened your nervesthrough Vicissitude. Maybe you're a tough bastard. Maybe it turns you on. Regard- less, you ignore one-dice wound penalties. That is, or Hurt or Injured, you suffer no wound penalties. You still suffer full wound penalties at Wounded and below. You must have a Conviction or Courage rating of 3 or more to take this Merit. If you possess the advanced Vicissitude power Ecstatic Agony, you gain no additional dice until you are at least Wounded: your indifference to pain deprives you of its power.

MET System: Your body is hardened to pain, possibly because your nerves just don't convey these advense feelingsor simply because you've experienced suffering and torture be yond comprehension and it has pushed you beyond the average tolerance. As such, you ignore penalties at the Bruised

Health levels.

DRACON'S TEMPERAMENT (3-pT. MENTAL MERIT)

your very psyche. Like the protean Dracon, you are a whirl- wind of temperaments. Unlike multiple personalities, which gives you more than one identity, you are the same person bur with different and changing Natures. Essentially, you either have no anchored sense of self, or you're so mutable that you can be anybody. At the beginning of each story, until its conclusion, you may choose one Personality Archetype to function as your Nature. This doesn't change your identity; it simply alters the way you perceive situations and how you deal with others. You also regain Willpower according to your new Nature and may be affected by other effects or Discipline powers as per your new Nature as well.

MET System: At the start of each game session, you may choose a new Nature. However, the Storyteller may, at his leisure, call you over and swap your present Nature for a new one to act out.

HAVEN AFFINITY

(3-pt. SupERNATURAL MERIT)

Caine's curse resonates strongly in your bones, but it possesses a proven advantage. You are connected to the soil of your prime haven, granting you an extra die to all dice pools when you operate there. It also acts as a mystic beacon to you, allowing you to home in on its location with a standard Perception + Survival roll (difficulty 6), +1 difficulty when a state or country separates you; +2 if you're halfway across the globe. This applies only to your prime haven and to none of your auxiliary shelters

MET System: You must first spend a Mental Trait and engage in a Simple Challenge with the Storyteller. If success ful, youwill eamabonus Trait in all challenges initiated within your haven, as well as feeling a spiritual tug from the direction in another city, then the Storyteller may decide to have you of your haven. If your haven is a goodly distance away, such as

make a Hand Test and spend a Willpower Trait rather then a Mental Trast, to reflect the strong mystical connection you share with your distant prime haven.

REVENANT DISCIPLINES (3-pr. SUPERNATURAL MERIT)

The ties to your revenant family stayed with you well past the Embrace. As such, the Disciplines that were innate to you asa ghoul have remained so as Cainite. At character creation, select the ghoul family from which you hail. Instead of the Trimisce's standard complement of Animalism, Auspex and Vicissitude, you instead draw from your three family Disci plines for your starting allocation (though you may buy other Dsciplines with freebies, as normal). Also, you leam your family Disciplines at the cost of a clan Discipline. It's either or however, meaning you cannot buy both the Trimisce and family powers at clan cost unless they both share a particular ability like Vicissitude.

MET System: You must first clear the heritage of your revenant family with the Storyteller before purchasing this ment. With Storyteller approval you may, at character cre ation, take the three innate Disciplines of your reverant

CHAPTER TRICK ECO AND EXOLLITION

Taking the notion of Aghi Dahalia to new levels, you've emulated the permutable nature of change and evolution into

69

family instead of those of the Trimisce. Any Discipline not of your revertant family, even ones passed on through the blood of the Trimisce, must be purchased as is out of clan. ANCESTRAL SOLL DEPENDENCE (2-pt. SupERNATURAL FLAW)

Dependence on their native soil hampered the Taimisce's flight from Eastern Europe. Even a few childer sired elsewhere required thescilafahomeland they had never visited, making them particularly vulnerable to enemies who knew of this weakness. In the modem nights, rapid transportation makes such a threat much less severe, but even childer sired genem tions after their ancestors relocated occasionally manifest this How

The will of the spirits from the ancestral Trimisce home- land weighs heavy on your blood-soil from a place important to you as a mortal won't do. You actually need two handfuls of the tainted Eastern European soil of the Taimisce homeland. Ancestral Soil Dependence most commonly muni- fests in the childerofladhaand the branch of the clan thought to be descended from Yorak Characters Embraced in Eastem Europe can't take this Flaw (they're already dependant on the local soil).

MET System: Your dependence on the magically rich and diseased soil of Eastem Europe is so severe that, until you one in possession of two handfuls, you will suffer a two-Trait penalty to all challenges.

SCARFACE (2-104-PT. PHYSICAL FLAW)

You're a walkingmess of scars. Although youhealdamage with Cainite efficiency, the manner in which you do so is all too human. For some reason, the regenerating flesh returns as scar tissue. Vicissitude doesn't help; in fact, it aggravates your condition with stretch marks and cicatrices anywhere your skin breaks. While this doesn't hamper you physically, itdoes affect your interactions with other people. For 2 points, all Social roll difficulties increase by one.

If you purchase Scarface as a 3-point Flaw, your face and body are so horribly blemished that your Appearance rating can never exceed 2. This is in addition to the limitations mentioned previously. As a 4-point Flaw, the swath of scars is thick enough to hinder your actions through skin-resistance. All Dexterity roll difficulties also increase by one, in addition totheotherpenalties this law imposes at lesser levels. Youcan ignore this penalty for one specific action by taking one level of (unsoakable) bashing damage; essentially, you're tearing the scar tissue for greater range of motion. Once you heal that damage, however, the penalty retums.

MET System: As a 2-point Flaw, you suffer the negative Social Traits Scarface x2 that must be open and notoriously presented, on a badge or post-it. As a 3-point Flaw, your Social Traits may never exceed five Traits, and as a 4-point Flaw, you suffer the negatives of the lesser levels, as well as suffering aone Trait penalty to all Physical Challenges

REVENANT WEAKNESS (3-p1.PHYSICAL FLAW)

You were once part of a revenant family. Following the Embrace, you suffered the double-whammy of your clin's weakness and your revenant family's limitation; whether it's blood bond to the Sabbor, the Oberts' instability or the the Bratovitch's propensity to fly into a rage, the Grimaldi's

fest a weakness from a lost or destroyed revenant line. This Zantowa's weak will. The Storyteller might also let you mani- could add mystery to your background and allow for a bit of genealogical detective work

MET System: As stated above, you suffer both the weakness of your clan as well as your revenant family limita- tion. You should work with your Storyteller if you decide to manifest a limitation of a lost or destroyed revenant line. CONSUMPTION (5-p1.PHYSICAL FLAW)

Portions of the Antediluvian are not only within you. they're active and act like a cancer that devours you from the inside out. Your very blood is wrought with a comosive, flesh- eating bacteria. At the beginning of each evening, you suffer one health level of bashing damage that cannot be soaked nor healed with blood. The only way to counteract the effect is by ingesting one-tenth of your body-weight in flesh to supple- ment your depleted carcass. Whether you kill and devour the skinfromhumansormaid the biohandcontainers fliposuction clinics for siphoned fat, you need your ration of human flesh in order to survive. If you try and ingest this macabre meal before damage is done, you'll simply vomit it out like any other food-this does not impart the benefits of the Eat Food Merit.

MET System: When testing for blood at the beginning of each game session, you suffer a level of bashing damage that can only be healed by ingesting mortal flesh, enough to replace You cannot pre-empt the effects of this corrosive bacteria by the fleshy tissue depleted from your body as a result of this Flaw. ingesting human flesh before the damage is taken; without the Eat Food Merit you will vomit out this flesh like anyotherfood. SICK IN THE HEAD

developing various derangements. Botched experiments, re- The unlifestyle of the Trimisce puts them at high risk of peated indulgence of their perversions and the intensity of

their Embracesconspire to twist their personalities When the Storyteller determines that a Tamisce should gain a new derangement, consider the lists in Vampire: The Masquer ade (pp. 222-224), Guide to the Sabbat (pp. 161-163) and the list included below. If the Storyteller allows, many derange ments from Clanbook: Malkavian or even Clanbook: Tremere might also be appropriate.

AGORAPHORIA

Agoraphobia literally means fearofopen spaces, "but the translation is misleading. Called "Mad Scientist's Disease" by younger Trimisce, agoraphobia manifests as an extreme aver- sion to places the sufferer fears he will panic. Sometimes the

CLANBOOK TIMISCE

70

derangement is attached to a few locations, but generalized agoraphobics avoid situations in which escape is difficult (an airplane at 30,000 feet) or embarrassing (making a speech).

Agoraphobicsdon't volunteer for situations that they fear might cause anxiety. Unless supernaturally compelled, agora phobic vampires must succeed on a Willpower roll (difficulty 8) to leave their havens each evening and must spend a point of Willpower to enter a situation from which escape will be difficult or embarrassing. If the character fails any Willpower roll during a scene that takes place in such a situation, the character must spend a point of Willpower or flee. Vampires can ignore these constraints while in frenzy.

The territorial nature of many Tzimisce makes this derangement relatively common within the clan. No doubt the world is scattered with at least a handful of agomphobic Cainites driven into torpor from lack of blood

ACUTE SANGUINARY AVERSION

This derangement, unique to the undead, involves a persistent fear that any source of vitae is dangerous. Explana tions vary-some vampires fear drugged or contaminated blood, the wrath of God or the presence of a blood-home Antediluvian. Regardless, unless the vampire is frenzied, the player must succeed on a Willpower roll (difficulty 8) cach time he feeds. Willpower cannot be spent on this roll, and a botch indicates that the vampire is so revolted by the prospect of feeding that he vomits up half of his blood pool.

Acute sanguinary aversion usually leads to a starve-and- frenzy pattem, with the vampire avoiding feeding until he loses control. Instead, the vampire might develop highly ritualized feeding methods that involve obsession with re- peated, largely arbitrary behaviors that must be observed before the Kiss is performed on a particular source of vitae. He might read a passage from the Book of Nod before feeding or drink blood only from a particular individual

In any case, if the feeding results in a Conscience or Conviction roll, increase the difficulty by one

THE NAMING OF FIENDS

Here's a list of some typical Slavic names, along with a few ideas for surnames, many of them Roma nian. When naming Fiends, keep in mind that the higher the generation, the less likely the I zimisce was born in Eastern Europe.

Males: Andrej, Boleslus, Conrad, Dimitri, Florian, Ivan, Jan, Karel, Ladislas, Marika, Nikolas, Orel, Pavel, Rurik, Sandor, Tibor, Volodya, Wenceslaus, Zarek

Females: Chessa, Dannika, Fanya, Gavrilla, Hana, Ikla, Jan, Katarina, Ljudumilu, Miesha, Nadezhda, Radilu, Sonja, Terezia, Valeska, Zorana

Surnames: Cerveni, Constantinescu, Cunescu, Diaconescu, Iliescu, Ionescu, Manolescu, Marko, Mohora. Patriciu. Roman. Tabara. Vasile

CHAPTER TWO: EGO AND EVOLUTION

71

06

COMBINATION DISCIPLINES

Some Canines competent with two or more Disci- plines can combine them to create new powers. Tamisce rarely learn these techniques spontaneously. Koldin inno vative Metamorphosists and survivors of the bitter rivalry between the Tremere and Trimisce-and their childer, too, perhaps might be convinced to serve as teachers SOUL DECORATION (AUSPER ORFUSCATE, VICISSITUDE

The aura is a byproduct of the body. Change the body, change the soul. The body's experiences can be summed up in the aura, but this phenomenon is the product of physical forces. By fleshcrafting certain loca tions on the body-chakras, joints, erogenous zones- a Trimisce with this power can "paint" whatever aura he chooses. Auras summarize the individual, revealing mood, the stain of diablerie and the Curse of Caine When under the gaze of perceptive eyes, sometimes it's better to conceal such things.

System: After spending three Willpower points, the player rolls her character's Perception + Empathy. The difficulty of this roll is equal to the subject's Willpower stronger personalities resist alteration, The number of successes indicates how completely the aura can be changed to the Trimisce's specifications,

1 success 2 successes

3 successes

4 successes

5 successes

Can alter shades (pale or bright), Can alter the main color

Can alter psychological state (fren zied, psychotic, etc.)

Can conceal or falsify diablerie and magic use

Can conceal or falsify natural con dition (vampire, shapeshifter, ghost, etc.)

The deception lasts one night per success. During this time, the aura doesn't change to reflect new condi tions in its owner.

Keep in mind that these are changes only to the aura, not the subject herself. At the Storyteller's discre tion, the subject may feel token emotions to match her new colors. She might feel somewhat distrustful if her aura was painted light green, for instance.

This power costs 20 experience points MET System: You must spend a Willpower Trait in order to alter the color of your own aura. Each Willpower Trait you spend in this feat of deception grants more control over the conditions of your aura.

You can change one aspect of your aura when spending a single Willpower Trait, whereas you can go all out and change five different facets with five Willpower Traits.

The changes made to your aura are undetectable in Auspex Challenges; the appearances of Soul Decora

tion last for a night.

You may also manipulate the auras of other Kindred or kine by spending a Willpower Trait and succeeding in a Static Willpower Challenge.

In MET, this power costs 6 Experience Traits PATER SZLACHTA (PROTEAN,

VICISSITUDE

Some Tzimisce combine the Protean power to tum into an animal with the possibilities of Vicissitude. Forces of chaotic change surge through the Fiend's body. forces he must direct while experiencing bone-breaking pain. When the Taimisce can bear the strain no longer. the body settles into the Pater Szlachta or bogatyn form- so named by Timisce anarchs to insult either their servants or the "elder valiant champions" who served still known to a few Trimisce, who sometimes use it in the anarchs' sires. In the modern nights, this power is

contests of improvisational fleshcrafting.

System: Spend two blood points and roll Stamina Medicine (difficulty 7). The change takes (5-the number of successes) tums to complete, during which the Tzimisce can only howl, drool vitae and writhe. The character can rearrange his Physical Attributes (onedot per success), but no Attribute can exceed the limit imposed by generation. The player can describe what sort of alterations he wants to make, but the process is difficult to control. In the end, the Storyteller is the final arbiter, choosing one physical state for the character in bugary form or certain Vicissitude modifications such as bone spikes, spine-saws, etc. Botches eam whatever physical Flaws the Storyteller chooses, maybe perma nent ones. The change lasts for one scene.

Example: The player of Csikos Thesz spends two blood points and cams four successes on his Stamina + Medicine roll. Csikens These spends one turn changing into the bogatyti form, during which he struggles to rearrange his muscles and body fat to better absorb impacts; he also concentrates on drawing forth bone mass to his louckdes, visualizing them coming to thick, knobby studs. After the change, his player can rearrange four dots of Physical Attributes. Before the change, Csikas had Strength 3. Dexterity 3, Starma 2. He moves a point from Strength and two from Dexterity into Summa and doesn't use the fourth success, leaving him with Strength 2, Dexterity 1, Stamina 5. Since four successes indicate an "exceptional success," the Storyteller decides that Csikos has grown bony nodules on his knuckles that inflict

lethal damage

CLANBOON: TRIMISCE

72

This power costs 18 experience points.

MET System: Your body increases its mass for every Blood Trait you spend. You must first enter into a Static Physical Challenge against the Storyteller, and if successful, you can increase your Physical Trait category by two Traits for every Blood Trait con sumed in this fashion, possibly exceeding the limits of your Generation.

BIRTH THE VOZHD (VICISSITUDE ANIMALISM

While the creation of whd was once the sole province of koldinac ritual, Trimisce who have mastered both fleshcrafting and control of the Beast Within can build toghd as well. The ingredients at least 15 ghouls (20 or more is preferable). First, the Taimisce fleshcrafts the ghouls together, forging the bodies into a single entity. The Fiend feeds the corporate mess a concoction of the blood of the ghouls, creating something like a Vinculum among them. This bond in place, the Fienduses Animal- ism to coalesce the Beasts of the ghouls into one insane and imperfect Beast that drives the tochd to crush or devour everything in sight.

System: After the Trimisce collects enough ghouls, roll her Intelligence + Body Craft (difficulty 10) to determine how quickly she constructs and "masters" the sochd. With one success, the process takes as long as a year; with five, it might only take a month. The Fiend can make further Vicissitude modifications to his creation (raise the difficulties of such rolls by 2 to reflect the size and complexity of the creature). Botches result in a nonviable biohazard or afrenzied, uncontrollable wohd. Also note that cozhd, driven by their flawed Beasts, are notoriously difficult to control. Raise the difficulty of all Animalism rolls involving a vozhd by three.

This power costs 36 experience points.

MET System: You must first enter into a Hard Test against the Storyteller, and should you lose this test, you must wait a year before once again attempting to Birth the Voghd, representing your lack of the physical and spiritual strength that is required for this power. It is possible to reduce this waiting period, by spending a Willpower Trait for each month you wish to decrease from the year in waiting Once these Willpower Traits have been spent toward the creation of a word, you cannot spend them again until your waiting period has concluded. While a Taimisce in a live-action game may be capable of doing this sort of thing, it is very hard to simulate in that medium. Live-action Storytellers are encouraged to disallow this power and use vozhd only when the story requires it.

CHAPTER TWOT ECO AND EXCUTION 73

CHAPTUR THRUU Among FiendS

"The throat must be mine," said the Count. "I claim the throat as my privilege." "It should be mine," mattered August. "I am the eldest and it is long since I fed. Yet I am content to have the breast." "The legs are mine," croaked the third monster. "Legs are always full of rich red blood." -Frederick Cowles, "The Vampire of Kaldenstein"

Velva-

A Modest Proposal. Let's sheath the Sword of Caine, awaken our Father and be done with the whole thing. No, I have not defected to the Camarilla (hiding in fear does not suit a diplomat). Rather, I have just had the most unpleasant interaction with a fresh pack that supposedly shares our blood. The fire in their bellies betrayed them as Trimisce. and I am glad that the Blood hasn't thinned to nothing just yet. But their fire blazes unchecked. Where is the discipline, the measured ingenuity that made us sovereigns of the Old World? Where is the inclination to graamess? Where is the respect? The voivodes are gone, and I fear that we shall never see their like again. Have we wasted too much of the old blood on sleges and Monomacy? These young ones, I do not understand them. This newest generation lacks... pro- tocol. Although I cherish the ideals of our sect, it tries me to

uphold them in the face of this modern impetuousness.

Were we like these upstarts, when we were young I do not remember.

Forgive my fit. Our correspondence has been a comfort to me during my travels abroad, and I must apologize for the lateness of this letter. Sadly, I was preoccupied with somic confusion within the consistory. Our august regent is acting more like herself than ever and persists in refusing me an audience. How fare the Cardinals of the Land Beyond the Forest? Have you learned anything more about the incident at Cemavoda? Send Elaine my love.

\-Your Homesick Radu

Note: Template characters have been created using the Sabbar character generation rules from the Guide to the Sabbat.

CHAPTER THREE: AMONG FENDS

75

LORD OF THE GHETTO

Quote: You are no longer welcome here, but the time for you to leave safely has passed. I would not be voivode very long if my subjects saw me as merciful.

Prelude: Your pack formed like the packs of old, driven from your native land by Tremere Usurpers. But this new country is not so different from your home. Even in the modern metropolis, the peasants understand au- thority. Your impoverished demesne isn't much to look at

\-nine city blocks of high-rise projects, decrepit shotgun houses, graffiti, drug dealers and gang warfare. Still, you have chosen it as your domain, and it suits your needs. Your neighborhood is not some suburb full of coddled buffoons. The people are smart here-they still respect a monarch. But the rulers of this land have discarded them. Yours is the only power they know.

After your Embrace, your sire exposed your notions of democracy as nothing more than a passing mortal vogue. Power is that which endures, he said. Ironic that he came to such a bad end. His lax governance proved his Final Death. In his last nights, Usurpers walked among his very subjects. A les-1 son learned even in this thoroughly modern land, which worships freedom and convenience. You will not be so foolish.

Concept: You run the

ghetto like Transylvanian voivode. While only a few of your "subjects"

a

gangbangers and addicts, mostly realize your true nature, almost ev eryone in the neighborhood knows you as the majestic gentleman who walks the streets after dark, halting at porches to admonish the children to behave morally, strolling by the block parties to give an ap proving nod. Your LEE subjects fear you, but s even those who suspect you are more than you seem find your presence comforting. You've made an example of

Al

Architect

Tami

Lorded the

00000

\*\*\*\*\*00000

0000000000

several trespassers, and the streets are

safer for your passing.

Roleplaying Hints: You are definitely old school. Though you consider your- self a patient and cultured ruler, you expect your au thority to be recognized, particularly within your own demesne. Despite your neofeudalist leanings, you realize that the children

of Caine cannot rule as openly as in nights past. Let your power speak for itself.

Equipment: Anti- quated aristocratic clothing, heavy over- coat, liberated switchblade, flowers given to you by neighborhood children

CONSCIENCE/Covere

C0000

00000

00000

COURAGE

BLOOD

Night

NAME

CHARACTER Siamese Twin

CHRONICLE

Tzimisce

\---------- GENERATION 10th

aby

DEMANDS Pedagogue

●•●000000 NATURE Eye of the Storm WILLPOWER

00000

CONSCIENCE/CONVICTION

COURAGE

00000

BLOOD

0.00000000 WILLDOWER

Night

NAME

CHAM Lord of the Ghetto

Силом

Tzimisce

Age

NATURE Architect

☐☐☐☐☐☐☐☐00 DEMEANO Director

PAR/HUMANITY

Nimble Rugged

Tough

CO

SOCIAL

Charming Persuasive x2

Expressivex2 Withy

Ingratiating

MENTAL

Dedicated Vigilant

Disciplined

Rational

Shrewd

ABILITIE

Academics

Occult

Empathy

Streetwise

Etiquette Subterfuge

BACKGROUNDS Resourcesx

All esx2 Contactsx2 Famexl

Retainert\!

Generationx2

Influences

DISCIPLINES Animalism (Fecal Whispers) Auspex 2(Heightened Senses, Aura Perception)

Vicissitude (Malleable Visage) MERITI & FLAWS

PHUMANIST

PHYSICAL

BACKGROUNDS

Generationx3

Respurcesx2

Dexterx2 Tough

Energetic

Influences

Steady

Beguilingx2 Expressive

SOCIAL

Observant x2

MENTAL

Alert Attenti

Creative

Disciplined

ASELITIES

Academics

Occult x2

Crafts Empathy

Subterfuge

DISCIPLINES

Amex (Heightened Senses. Aur:Perception. Spirits Touch Telepathy Psychic Projection) Potence (Prowess)

MERITS & FLAWS

CHAPTER THREE: AMONG FENES

77

THE SIAMESE TWIN

Quote: Forgive me. I would sustain myself some other way, if I could. But yes, this will probably kill you- I'm feeding for ten

Prelude: Your parents balked when the man from the circus wanted to take you on the road. You and your brother, inextricable since birth, were their beloved children, not sideshow freaks. "People are curious," the circus man said. "Your sons can teach them about the bizarre oddities of nature." Your father rejected the deal by reaching for his shotgun.

Maybe the man from the circus was right. Your sire was certainly curious the night she met you. You thought she'd never stop asking questions. What does it feel like? Did you ever have any privacy? Does it make sex awk ward? You'd been asked these questions all your life, and you enjoyed the attention of someone who seemed sin- cerely curious. Then she started asking questions you didn't quite understand. She threw around the word

"embrace" a lot and you thought maybe she

was com

ing on to

you. But

you re-

Беместия

Eye of the Store10

C

ally didn't see how she intended to "embrace" one of you without

"embracing" the other.

Sometimes you miss your brother. You're dead yourself. but he's really dead. At least, you're pretty sure he's dead.

Concept: Her curiosity satisfied, your sire abandoned you to the night. But you had the-luck? misfortune?-of being Embraced in a Sabbat city. A nomadic pack thought you looked "really fucking weird," so, of course, they invited you to join the Vaulderie. For now, you stick with your new pack-who else would believe your story\! You used to take a lot of shit from your packmates, and sometimes you still do. but it seems like they admire your ability to perceive auras and read minds. Pretty soon, they say, you'll hardly need a body at all.

Roleplaying Hints: Adjusting to existence without your brother has been almost as difficult as adjusting to unlife itself, to you, the two concepts are intertwined. While you had a few hard-won friends in life, the local Cainites don't respond to your simple honesty. That is, until you frankly tell them what you think of what they're thinking. Recently, you've experi

mented with the fleshcrafting abilities of your clan, but

you're not ready to part with your brother just yet.

Equipment: Specially tailored clothing, random bric-a-brac from your mortal days to which you've

developed a sentimental attachment

MOST EUGENIC BABY, 1929

Quote: I'm the seed Mendel shondld've studied.

Prelude: They scoured your family tree for alcohol- ics, imbeciles, syphilitics and Negroes, and, finding none, awarded your parents a prize at the 1929 Minne- sota State Fair for the "Most Eugenic Baby." Eugenics was the dominant scientific fad among American pseudo- intellectuals in those days, and your genealogy seemed ideal by the prevailing standards.

Your parents put on a good show for the judges. It took superior breeding and superior rearing to create a superior child.

From then on, any hint at mediocrity-middling grades, only scoring a single touchdown in a game-led your mother to punish you for not living up to your "goodly heritage." Ashamed of squandering the precious gift of good breeding, you learned her obsessive/compulsive behavior and avoided failure at all costs.

You eventually earned a degree in genetics. Your work was undeniably brilliant, but cer- tan factions of the scientific community complained that your conclusions "recked of Social Darwinism."

By the time of your Em-

brace in the late 1980s.

the eugenics craze had long since

been discred-

ited. But your

dichard sire attrib- uted

its

unpopularity to the

modern penchant racial

for

apologetics. Turns out he'd been keeping up with award-winningeu- genic children all over North America and En- gland. He said you were the pick of the litter but that as a human you were merely a seed. With that, he inducted you into the most prestigious lineage of all.

Concept: While your sire is abroad seeking oth- ets of good stock, he's set you to work learning about the generations of your new family. You've been side- lined from your genealogy of Clan Trimisce by an interest in the

Gestion

Het

VAMPIRE

0000000000

revenant families that serve your kind. You think you might even know how to

create one of your OWIL

Roleplaying Hints: If only Mother could see you now\!

Your superior breeding

has finally earned you more than just a prize coin, and you intend to prove wor thy of the honor. Cainites of other clans lack the refined Trimisce heritage, but you've learned to stop pointing that out. Their feeble minds can't accept that you're not insulting them: it's not their fault they're mongrels.

LEIF

Jae

200

Equipment: Collec tion ofoldgenealogies and census records, DNA lab

with abutting ghoul kennels, portrait of Mother, bronze coin inscribed "Yes, have a goodly heritage"