D.C. By Night 

D.

by Nig

A City Sourcebook for VAMPIRE: The Masquerade™

by

Night,

Monument to Blood

by Harry L. Heckel IV

To that high Capital, where kingly Death Keeps his pale court in beauty and decay, He came.

\-

\-Percy Bysshe Shelley, Adonais

As flames draw the moth, so does Washington draw the Damned, as they flock to a place where their plots and games are the norm, not the exception. Here, playing with people's lives becomes an art, and manipulating pawns a cherished moment.

But it is not a game. Those who play it like a game find themselves trumped and checkmated. They die, taking the innocent with them. Those who understand that such power is not to be toyed with succeed, for they give it the respect it deserves... and the fear.

Credits:

Written By: Harry L. Heckel IV

Additional Material By: Heather Curatola, Alan Fisher, Charles Beeply and Amelia G.

Edited By: Laura Perkinson Developed By: Andrew Greenbeng Art Director: Richard Thomas

Layout and Typesetting: Aileen E. Miles

Art: Thomas Berg, Jason Felix, Nick Ruskin, Joshua Gabriel

Timbrook

Front Cover Art: William O'Connor Cover and Logo Design: Aileen E. Miles Printed in Canada

Special Thanks to:

Mark "Skinny" Rein Hagen, for playing with the big boys. Stewart "Ankle Breaker" Wieck, for keeping his wife on

those crutches.

Sam "Belfast" Chupp, for getting ready to kiss the Blarney

stone.

Wes "Champagne" Harris, for celebrating all his victories. Rob "Take Me Back" Hatch, for discovering just how many

books the fiction department plans to put out. Ben "Great Plains" Monk, for showing everyone how it's

done.

Michelle "Are You a Natural Purple?" Prahler, for her

latest hair dye.

Mike "Not Enough Stress" Krause, for trying to bring in

that fictional money

Staley "He Looked Lonely" Krause, for bringing that dog

to work.

Special thanks for quotes to: Justin Achilli and Calch Garner

Author's Dedication:

To Daniel Greenberg, the best mentor anyone could ask for, and Pieter, Steve, Tobi, Wayland, Derek and Ciera for starting it all, and everyone who kept me writing.

WHITE WOLT GAME STUDIO

SUITE 100 780 PARK NORTH BLVD. CLARKSTON, GA 30021

1995 by White Wolf, Inc. All rights reserved. Repro duction without the written permission of the publisher in expressly forbidden, except for the purpose of re- views. D. C. by Night and Vampire The Masquerade are trademarks of White Wolf, Inc. All characters, names, places and text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf, Inc.

The mention of, or reference to any company or product in these pages is not a challenge to the trademark or copyright concerned.

Because of the nature themes involved, reader

discretion is advised.

D.

by Nig

Chapter 1: Introduction

Contents

Chapter 2: History

Chapter 3: Geography

16

24

Chapter 4: The Damned

Chapter 5: Circles Within Circles

Chapter 6: Running the City

42

90

104

1995

Chapter One: Introduction

oh I miss the luss of treachery the shameless kiss of vanity the soft and the black and the velvety up tight against the side of me and mouth and eyes and heart all bleed and run in thickening areams of grood as bit by bit it starts the need to just let go my parry plece -The Cure, "Disintegration"

Power Games

Ishook as sudden thunder boomed across the Mall. The flashing lightning outside lit the monuments, and I won- dered again who really wielded the power in Washington, DC The Beast inside was squirming already, so I lay back into the soft couch, looked over at the impeccably dressed blonde and smiled.

She smiled back, showing just a hint of her fangs A faint predatory gleam flickered in her eyes. "Don't be so worried." she said softly, "The prince will see you in a moment."

"Of course," I replied. For just that moment, I wished that Vienna hadn't sent me here. I realized that Washington was important, perhaps crucial in our plans, and I was sure that the Pontifex held enough power to deal with any so called prince, but I couldn't shake this sensation of dread. The storm outside wasn't natural. A waming from the Pontifex to remind this prince of his place\! For some reason. I didn't think so. And looking at Gloria Diamond, my fellow chantry member, heightened my suspicions. She seemed

more entrenched with this prince than the clan. I was liking this less and less

"Any trouble getting in from the airport?" she asked, as she raised a goblet filled with crimson blood to her ruby lips

I watched her stp. I felt my hand clench into a fist, a fact which didn't escape her attention.

"Yes," I replied, meeting her pale blue eyes and feeling like a neonate.

"Good. You should have. DC. doesn't appreciate real visitors, only the tourists."

A burst of lightning cascaded across the sky outside. followed by an explosion of thunder. The lights inside flickered.

I looked ar Gloria. "The Pontifex's doing?" I asked She mouthed no and quickly looked down

I felt his presence behind me. I tumed and stood. For a moment, our eyes met. His dark gaze burned coldly, and in its depths, raged passions far more frightening than the violent storm. Before I knew what had happened, I had fallen to my knees, and was sweating blood.

Chapter One: Introduction:

The Prince of Washington, DC, Marcus Vitel, stood before me, dressed in an exquisite tailored suit. He towered above, tall, impressive-everything you'd expect from a vampire prince. The image of true Ventrue power. But something was wrong. Not a flaw in his appearance or the power of his Presence; it was something else... the Beast began to struggle within me, tugging at the comers of my mind. I could almost hear it, whispering to me: run, get away

...I spoke quickly.

"Prince Marcus Vitel of Washington, DC., Lam Michael Phelps, Clan Tremere. My site was Alexander Chisholm of London. I present myself to you, and request your permis- sion to reside in your city."

Silence followed, broken at long last by the crash of lightning.

"Why have you come to my city\!"

His voice was deep and strong, resounding with authority. "I was sent by my clan elders to attend the Pontifex." Another silence. I was still kneeling and unable to rise. The wolf padded up behind me.

"Michael Phelps... you did not answer my question. Why have you come to my city? Why did your elders send

you?"

"It was an honor, Prince Vitel. They believe I have potential. They believe that serving the Pontifex will train me to become a leader in our clan."

The Prince took a few measured steps over to the window. With extreme effort, I tore my eyes from the floor.

He stood in front of the window, with the Washington Monument visible behind him. The shadows fell across his face, and his eyes fixed on mine. I felt my blood freeze. His eyes flashed faintly as the lightning flickered outside.

"Understand this, Michael Phelps of Clan Tremere. I am Prince of Washington. D.C. Unlike many princes, I do not tolerate threats-veiled or otherwise-to my nule. The Masquerade is too fragile here. The actions of one foolish neonateor elder-in my city could make all Kindred suffer. If you have any needs or difficulties, you come to me Obey the Traditions and cause me no trouble, and you will reap the benefits of power that only Washington, DC. can offer,"

He ganed deeply into my eyes. I heard myself whisper. "Yes, my Prince."

Another explosion of thunder sounded.

"You have my permission to remain, Michael Phelps. You may go to your Pontifex."

Before I was even aware of my actions, I was on my feet and outside the door, Gloria's pale arm entwined around my own. I looked at her. She gave me that predatory smile.

"You're lucky. He liked you."

How to Use this Book

Although some say that Washington, DC. has more blood suckers per capita than any other city in the world (and these are people who don't believe in vampires), this book takes the worst elements of the nation's capital and transforms them into an environment for storytelling in the World of Darkness. If you are looking for an accurate portrayal of D.C., go purchase a travel guide. If you want to see how Kindred could exist in the most important city in the World of Darkness, you've come to the right place.

There are three basic ways to use this sourcebook. First. you could set a chronicle in Washington, DC. and use this book and its NPCs as material. Second. Washington, DC. makes a great place to visit, and with the headquarters of the US government and several other hunter groups located in the city, there are many storylines that could take Kindred to the nation's capital. Finally, you could never have any Kindred visit Washington, DC, itself, but many of the characters in this book can be transplanted, and the history here can be used as background for events and settings in your own chronicle.

More information on Washington, DC. and its role in the World of Darkness can be found in Caerns: Places of Power, the hunters books, and many of the clanbooks.

Threats

While the Damned have left their mark on almost every city in the world, some stand out in their immortal memories. Rome, Alexandria, London, Baghdad-at their heights, these places drew the undead like carrion draws vultures. Now the capital of the United States must be added to this list, for while fewer than 50 vampires live in and around the capital, Kindred across the globe have a stake in what goes on there.

The greatest dangers come from the resident Kindred of Washington, DC. While they will defend their allies, a simple call to any of the hunters will eliminate their enemies and keep their hands clean. Threats, even veiled ones, are not taken lightly in Washington, DC. New Kindred will discover that older vampires assume that everyone is an enemy. Here is only a partial list of the dangers of D.C.

Kindred from around the globe closely monitor events in the city. Should a neonate block their plans, even by accident, they will wreak vengeance.

Followers of Set have moved into the Northeast and Southeast sections of the city along with the drug trade.

The Sabbat and Camarilla struggle for control of Baltimore to the north. Should Baltimore fall, Washington, D.C. is next on the Sabbat's path to conquest.

A number of mages operate in and around Washing- ton, D.C., including branches of the Technocracy. These

D. C. by Night

scientific mages believe that vampires are an aberration, an abomination against the natural laws of reality.

The Arcanum has several clearinghouses for its scholars, where nightly debates rage about the existence of the undead.

The Inquisition has a base of operations located around Georgetown University. Several vampires who chose to walk the streets near Georgetown discovered that they were prey as well as predators.

FBI Special Affairs and the NSA both have their headquarters in the Washington, DC metro area.

The Prince, along with his daughters, who appeared only a few short decades ago, has moved fast to consolidate his power. He has allies in the strangest places, and crossing them is tantamount to signing one's own death warrant.

Theme

The theme of Washington, D.C. by Night is the nittute of control. Who controls whom? Where does the

true power in the city lie? How does a Kindred control her surroundings when she can't control the Beast inside her self\! Individuals without influence have nothing in Washington, DC, no matter how much personal power they wield.

Mood

The mood of Washington DC. is best described as high anxiety. A misspoken word uttered among the upper crust of the vampiric community could lead to destruction, both social and physical. Everyone watches everyone else, wait- ing for that one fatal misstep. Everyone is expendable when the stakes are high and here the stakes are always high

The Damned

There are two centers of power in Washington, DC. the Prince, Marcus Vitel; and the Tremere, led by Pontifex Peter Dorfinan. The Nosferatu, Gangrel, and Malkavian clans have an alliance which builds daily and could pose a threat to all the others. The Brujah are concerned with the Anarch Movement, and the Toreador, the architects of the Washington, DC. plan, are a tattered wreck of a clun, though one strong voice could turn them around.

Prince Marcus Vitel rules with an iron hand. He does

not forgive. Instead, he creates examples. Nonetheless, the harm him. The Nosferatu say that if you avoid the Prince's Prince does not pay attention to things that do not directly gaze, you can do anything. That is... if you can also avoid

the Pontifex's attention.

Pontifex Dorfman has his ghouls involved in almost every aspect of Washington society. They work as lobbyists,

Chapter One: Introduction

serve in important government offices, and run clubs. If an individual seems useful in the short term, then Dorfman Dominates her into obedience. He is the only individual with the courage for stupidity) to challenge the Prince on issues. However, none of his indirect attempts to bring down Prince Vitel's reign have met with any measure of success.

Some wonder why the Prince hasn't destroyed the Pontifex-socially, at least, if not physically. There are two prominent theories on the subject. First, a few Kindred, especially among the Toreador, believe that the Prince likes to maintain the illusion of having some kind of real oppo sition. The second idea is that the Prince prefers letting all of the Kindres see their alternative to his rule: Prince Dorfman. A few (mostly Tremere) say that the Prince fears the wrath of Clan Tremere if he were to disturb their network. Few others believe that Vitel fears anyone.

Controlling the Government

A statesman is only a dead politician. I never want to be a

staterman

\-Harry Truman

Why doesn't an intelligent elder, such as the Prince of Washington, DC, manipulate the federal govemment more than he does\! Presidents and political appointees may change every four (or eight) years, but there are enough Washington insiden and career bureaucrats who don't change for a price to establish tremendous sway.

First, if a vampire gained enough power to control American policies, the entire Camarilla would work to destroy het. Elders and Methuselahxalike would aid Justicars in eliminating such a potential threat. Many believe this was the fate of Marcus Vitel's predecessor, Prince Marissa. When she acquired more political influence than needed to have control of her city, the Camarilla covertly slew her.

The city's most powerful players, Prince Vitel and Pontifex Dorfman, know that their is a limit to how much influence they may attain. If they take more than their share, destruction will come swiftly. This is one reason why none of the powerful elders inside Washington support the idea of D.C. statehood. Despite the fact that such a change could give them senators to control, they know statehood would make it difficult to legitimize any other federal authority, In other words, the Camarilla would do its best to stamp out all of their national influence.

Second, a number of other dangerous groups, such as the Arcanum, the F.B.I. Special Affairs Division and the mages of the Technocracy watch the mortal world for signs of vampiric control. The further a vampire spins her webs of influence, the greater the chance that her latticework of pawns will draw the notice of unwanted hunters and bring her minions crashing down. She'll be lucky to escape with her unlife.

Finally, many different groups have influence in the federal government. Vampires across the globe, and espe

10

D. C. by Night

JASON

cially across the United States, have their pawns in the wystem. For instance, before Ronald Reagan became Presi dent of the United States, he was Governor of California and an important tool in the Camarilla's battles against the Anarch Free States. A number of West Coast Kindred had Retainers amongst his aides, and when Reagan came into the national spotlight, they were able to exert more influ ence across the country. This type of manipulation occurs at many levels. When a politician makes it to Washington, he listens to the subtle whispers of many masters-masters who won't take kindly to the lords of Washington trying to control their paw

In addition, mortal companies and special interests work constantly to try to manipulate politicians. Organiza tions such as fentex and the National Rifle Association (NRA) spend millions to keep congressmen in their pock- eta. Other supernatural beings-wraiths, muages, werewolves, changelings, etc. have their own goals, which they posh government officials to help them achieve. With so many different forces pulling on politicians in the World of Darkness, the chances of any one gaining supremacy over the others for any length of time is virtually nil.

In any case, D.C.'s convoluted politics occupies the time of Washington's Kindred. Suchevents as Mayor Marion Barry's arrest and return to power are the work of numerous players exerting their influence. When the vampires inside

the beltway decide to affect a national decision, they play a

number of cards at once, using all of their influence to charge a single vote or implement a policy, then stepping back to avoid the appearance of too much power, which may bring on the wrath of the Camarilla or their local enemies.

The Prince of DC does require that all outsiders who manipulate pawns in his domain receive his permission. While this request has not always been heeded, Prince Vitel almost always grants permission to those who request it. Over the last two decades, he has also started to request small favors in exchange for this permission. Prince Vitel never requests favors of any vampire who might have the ear of a Justicat, but slowly, Vitel has created a precedent to the benefit of himself and future Washington princes.

Mortal Society

Washington, DC. is a stringe place, divided between the haves and have-nots, between city dwellers and com muters, between visitors and residents, between blacks and whites. Most of the affluent population of the District itself lives in Northwest DC. This is also where most white Washington residents live.

For the politically important and influential, Washing- ton is a city of parties and power lunches. It is a place where decisions that shake the world are made, where lobbyists decide how to control congressmen, where campaign ana- lysts and political advisors debate how to manipulate the

public. It is a place where whom you know is more important than what you know, and where prestation is a reality for mortals as well as Kindred.

For the rest of its citizens, Washington, is a beautiful place of monuments and symbols which seems to have forgotten that its also supposed to be a city. For many years Washingtonians didn't even get to vote for president, and the D.C. budget must still be approved by Congress. It is a city of drugs and violent crime, where the Gothic and Punk elements clash openly. Here people struggle to improve their lots in life amid poverty, abuse, poor education and constant insecurity.

Many of the people who work in the District live outside it. They make the morning commute from as far south as Fredericksburg, Virginia or as far north as Frederick Maryland. Alexandria, Rockville, Silver Spring, and Greenbelt all form a ring of cities around the District, each one adding to the District's metro area. Much to the dismay of both Baltimore and Washington, DC. residents, the 1990 Census found the two metro areas indistinguishable.

Many Washingtonians are distrustful, all too well aware of the jaded political mechanisms that dictate government policy. Though they welcome tourists, they will go to lengths to make sure that they are not mistaken for one themselves.

Mortal Politics

Encyclopedias could be written about Washington politics. The city itself has a mayor, elected by D.C citizens. There is also a city council. Several wards divide the District, and each of these areas has a representative. The duties of the mayor involve managing the enormous city bureaucracy and trying to stand between the District and Congress. The mayor has the unenviable rask of caning for the capital city, while trying to avoid stepping on the toes of national organizations. While D.C. statehood would make this less of an issue, the movement has few supporters outside the Beltway.

Organizations

Washington serves as the headquarters for hundreds of organizations, ranging from one-person offices to massive operations. The tremendous resources available in the city make it very appealing to many private groups, especially those with a need to lobby Congress. Listening to conversa tions in Washington coffee shops, a visitor might hear a bureaucrat or government contractor rattle off half-a-dosen abbreviations and numbers.

Here are a few examples:

AARP-American Association for Retired Persons, which has a powerful seniors' rights lobby. Its members have been known to throw themselves at the cars of congresspeople who have offended the organization.

Chapter One: Introduction

12

D. C. by Night

ATF The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms, part of the Justice Department, involved with the attack on the Branch Davidians in Waco, Texa

AMA-The American Medical Association, which fights health care reform with the same intensity it once fought the Medicare program, which its members now take full advantage of

DOD Department of Defense, whose branches have a far larger budget than do most countries.

The Fed-The Federal Reserve Board, which sets the country's economic policies.

NRA-National Rifle Association, the powerful gun rights lobby in Washington, DC.

NRC-Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the group that keeps track of all nuclear regulations

OSHA-Occupational Safety and Health Admin- istration, agovemment organization that monitor workplace safety

POTUS-The President of the United States. SecDef The Secretary of Defense, a cabinet

member.

References

Amebeck, Bob, Through A Fiery Trail. Building Wash- ington 1790-1800.

D.C.

Caemmerer. H.P.. Washington: The National Capital Hephum, Andrew, Rand McNally Guide: Washington

Peterson, Larry, Fodor's Washington, D.C.

Ross, Betty, Washington DC. Museums A Ross Guide: Schlinger, Bob, and Surkiewicz, Joe, with Eve Zibart, The Unofficial Citade to Washington, DC.

Smith, Howard K., Washington DC The Story of Or Nation's Capital.

Movies and Television

All the President's Men (The story of Watergate, dem- onstrating the relationship between the press and politicians in Washington, DC.)

Clear and Present Danger (A fun action-adventure film about the CIA and its operations in conjunction with the President of the United States.)

Dave (An amusing film, also about the Presidency, with nice background shots of the nation's capital.)

Murphy Brown (This popular sitcom is set in Washing ton, D.C., and sometimes provides commentary on current political issues.)

No Way Out (Another thriller involving conspiracy and the military, showing off the Pentagon.)

Traveling to Washington, D.C.

Our approach to the city was accompanied with sensations not easily described.

\-John Cotton Smith

There are many ways to enter Washington, DC., but like many cities in the World of Darkness, each has its dangers. For a nation's capital, Washington, DC. can be surprisingly unfriendly and unforgiving.

Road Travel

Several rounds lead directly into Washington, DC.-1- 70 from the northwest, 1-95 from the north or south, US 50 from the Annapolis-Eastern Shore, 1-66 from the west, or the Baltimore-Washington Parkway which parallels 1-95 north to the Baltimore metro area. All of these routes have one thing in common: they all connect to the Capital Beltway, one of the most inhospitable environments ever constructed for motorists.

The Capital Beltway circles Washington DC. It changes from 1-495 to become part of 1-95 as it travels north-south alongside the eastern part of the city. The Capital Beltway is perpetually under construction, usually at night or in the early morning hours, and has unusual surges of traffic. During rush hours, the entire loop becomes clogged with can. Rush-hour traffic jams can easily last until after dark. Sunday nights are also atrocious.

Accidents, ranging from a truck jackknifing to medical waste spilling across the roads to a normal multi-car colli- sion, occur with frightening regularity on the Beltway. When this happens, traffic comes to a grinding halt for miles, clogging entrance and exit ramps across the city.

However, the road networks of Washington are the hardest for Kindred to watch for intruders. Virtually any vampire can drive into the city, especially from the south. For this reason, the Prince of Washington takes consider- able interest in events in Fredericksburg and the rest of Virginia.

Air Travel

Three airports-Dulles International Airport, Wash- ington National Airport, and Baltimore-Washington International Airport-serve the D.C. area. Residents refer to them as Dulles, National, and BWI

For domestic travelers, Washington National Airport, located across the Potomac from the Mall, is by far the most convenient. The Washington Metro System allows travel- ers to National easy access to most of the city. For this reason, the Prince has ghouls constantly checking baggage from flights entering National, especially those from major anarch and Sabbat cities. This activity goes on perpetually,

JF

Chapter One: Introduction

13

day and night. The Nosferatu always keep at least a few competent rats watching the National Metro Station.

Dulles International is the least well protected of the airports. It lies to the west of the city m Virginia, about 40 minutes or more away from downtown D.C. and connected by the Dulles Access Road to 1-66. The Tremere try to keep watch on the Dulles Access Road, but sometimes things slip by their guard.

Baltimore-Washington International Airport is a sui cidal route for an unwanted Kindred to take into the city The Prince of Baltimore and the Prince of Washington. DC both protect this airport. At least one Kindred is always watching BWI, along with a strike team of ghoul security. Visitors had better have high Manipulation scores

Rail Travel

Union Station is one of the most impressive train stations in the country. It contains a Metro Station, and a line of raxis and limousines waits outside, day or night. Shops and restaurants fill Union Station, and it has a multi- screen movie theatre on the lower level. Trains leave for destinations across the country, including popular hourly metroliners to New York. Another train of note is the Crescent, which runs from New York to New Orleans via Washington, DC.

Union Station contains agents of the Prince and the Noderata For Kindred fleeing the city to the south by mail,

all southbound trains leaving Union Station travel through a darkened tunnel on their way out of the city. On more than a few occasions, a train has hroken down while Nosferatu grab a few victims.

Water Travel

Most Kindred avoid water travel, although a marina exists on the Potomac Canal. The waterfront falls on the border of the Bawn of the Sept of the Awakening, a group of Garou. These werewolves have a fragile, unspoken truce with the Kindred of DC. They avoid the Elysium areas of the Mall, and have made a spoken deal with the Nosferatu. This doesn't stop the Bone Gnawers from dealing harshly with unwary vampires of any clan who visit the Waterfront.

C\&O Canal

A favored way to sneak into Washington, DC. is to follow the old C\&O Canal down into Georgetown. The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal has a long history, but Wash- ington was never positioned to take economic advantage of it. Now it serves primarily as a bike trail, although mules still pull barges along the canal for the history buffs. Rumors of the predations of a Lupine pack called the Shadow Lords cause most vampires to shun this route.

14

D. C. by Night

Getting Around Washington D.C.

Metrorail and Metrobus

Washington DC. has an extensive subway network- the Metro System-which opened in 1976 and makes travel through the city and to the outlying suburbs fairly simple. The system is remarkably clean and safe. The Metro has its own security with the authority to make arrests. The stations are well labeled. Large maps decorate the walls. showing off the different lines, all designated by color. There are five lines: the Red, the Orange, the Blue, the Yellow, and the Green.

Each Metro station has maps of the surrounding area and bus stops for Metro System buses, which connect everything that the subway doesn't reach. The train system shuts down around midnight, though the buses run through- out the night. The Nosferaru and their ghouls maintain a constant watch on the Metro. Little occurs on the trains without their knowledge.

Taxis

Washington DC. has an abundance of cabs running around the clock, but all of them operate on the same bizarre

rate structure. Taxis charge fires according to the number of zones crossed during a ride rather than by mileage. Thus, a two-block ride may cost more than traveling several miles. The fares inside the city are reasonable, but in the Washing ton suburbs, taxi fares increase dramatically.

Cars

For an individual who isn't intimately familiar with Washington, city driving can be a nightmare. Streets change names suddenly, shift over a few blocks, become one way. etc. Even an accomplished map reader is in for a time trying to make his way through some of the side streets of DC The streets are almost always crammed with cars, and natives enjoy scaring visitors with lightning-fast lane changes and high-speed maneuvers

Washington has a number of circles where several streets intersect with inner and outer loops. These can cause navigational difficulties even for those who are used to them. Another thing to watch are the number of diplomatic cars with red, white, and blue license plates. The drivers of these vehicles have diplomatic immunity and a well-earned reputation for dangerous driving

The organization of the streets, however, makes some sense. If a traveler ignores the roads named after states, then she will see that the north-south streets parallel one another in numerical order. The lettered streets, such as K Street and Q Street, trivel east-west and follow a logical sequence.

Chapter One: Introduction

15

LEIF

Chapter Two: History

One of these days this will be a very great city if nothing

Kappens to it.

\-Henry Adams

The history of Washington, DC. is by its very nature a history of the country. As the United States has grown in influence and power, so has its capital grown in glory and

magnificence.

In 1790, Secretary of the Treasury Alexander Hamilton. selected a new site for a national capital on the banks of the Potomac, resolving disputes over voting and taxes between the northern and the southern states. After Congress ap- proved the site with the Resident Act of 1790, President George Washington appointed French-American engineer Pierre Charles L'Enfant to design the city. Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson named Andrew Ellicott as chief surveyor, and Benjamin Banneker aided Ellicott in his duties

Unknown to the mortal world, many powerful Kindred tried to influence the choice of a national capital. The Toreador lords and ladies of France saw the United States as an opportunity to regain prestige in the New World, last when the Ventrue-dominated British claimed Canada. They wanted a new city founded as the capital of the 13 colonies. It would be fresh and malleable, a place with no traditions. These artists hungered for the opportunity to design a national capital, one that would hear the mark of their plan for all eternity. The Ventrue desired a central location with access to trade, so that even with the westward expansion, they would still hold a powerful prize.

When L'Enfant saw the location on the Potomac, his imagination soared. Some Kindred believe Toreador Methuselahs sent him visions at night. Others thought his plans came from the Malkavians. Ellicott thought L'Enfant was more than a hit deranged with his grandiose plans Many of his ideas were so innovative that the surveyors could not understand them. He wanted a city that would surpass all others in beauty and grandeur.

By 1791, the surveyors confirmed the site. The Presi dent appointed three commissioners to boy land from the 19 farmers who owned property between Alexandria, Vir- ginia and George Town, Maryland. These commissioners were landowners themselves, among them Daniel Carroll of Maryland.

Unfortunately, L'Enfant's ambitions for the city didn't meet with the commissioners approval. They could not understand why he insisted upon building on such a grand scale. They didn't share his vision of the next great world capital. The Toreador were already losing influence over the capital.

L'Enfant's plan was dismissed in favor of a more mod- crate design presented by Andrew Ellicott. In 1792, Congress approved Ellicott's plan, and construction began, though Ellicott lasted only a year on the project before resigning.

Chapter Two: History

17

18

The Early Years

Sabotage, work stoppages and miscommunications ham pered the efforts to build the nation's capital. Days were spent in arguments over how to tame the land, where to put the roads, and where the boundaries of the city would be. More than a few of these problems were due to the influence of powerful Toreadors who were angered by the dismissal of the L'Enfant plan. These elder vampires subtly attempted to design the capital themselves from far away in Europe. Their arrogant attempts to sculpt the capital amounted to nothing but delays.

Finally, during the administration of John Adams in 1800, the govemment moved into the new capital. At that time, Washington, DC. had a population of only 3,000. There were about 400 houses, of which only the Octagon House and the White House still remain today. History does not tell whether there were any Kindred living in the city. More likely a vampire would have dwelled across the Potomac in Alexandria, with its bustling population of 5,000.

The first session of Congress held in Washington, D.C. was not a happy one, Pigs waddled along Pennsylvania Avenue between the White House and the Capitol. Stumps littered the ground, and com grew in the former fields. Construction went on constantly, and during hard rains the Tiber Creek flooded, making Pennsylvania Avenue impass able. The one completed wing of the Capitol building housed the entire Congress and the Supreme Court.

During winter, Washington, DC. became a ghost town. Government officials would return to their home districts and states, and the city, with the exception of a handful of workers, and the president and his staff, would be deserted.

For this reason, the Kindred didn't see fit to move into early Washington. A Brujah Prince, Arthur Carroll, a relative of commissioner Daniel Carroll, rose up in Georgetown and declared himself lord of the new capital. Most New World Kindred took his claims lightly. Many believed that this union of the thirteen colonies would end as time passed, so the powerful vampires of the New World spent their time fighting over state capitals such as Richmond and Annapolis, and large cities, such as Philadelphia, New York and Boston

The Sabbat presence in the New World was already strong, and the Camarilla spent its resources attempting to catch up. In most of the former colonies, the efforts of the

Camarilla were in vain.

regulars defeated 7,000 U.S. militiamen at the Battle of Bladensburg. After the victory, the British advanced on the city, with Ventrue ghouls among them. When the British burned Washington, DC., they not only destroyed several public buildings, including the White House and the Li- brary of Congress; Ventrue minions wrecked private homes that were suspected havens for other Kindred's Retainers.

The British ended up losing more men in Washington DC than the Americans, however. British ammunition exploded during the fire, killing many soldiers. A sudden thunderstorm began after the city was aflame and blew bricks down upon the soldiers. These deaths remain a mystery, though many blame the Tremere, who, they say, were either seeking revenge for the racing of the Library of Congress, or aiming to demonstrate that they, too, had designs on the city.

In the aftermath, the residents of DC. were demoralized Debates raged over whether to give up on the site and move the nation's capital to a better location, such as Lancaster, Pennsylvania, or even back to Philadelphia. Two factor turned the tide of the movement toward staying in the District: news of the American victory at the Barrle of New Orleans, which helped to restore the pride of Congress and the people, and the efforts of the residents of the city, who pooled their resources in order to build a temporary brick Capitol across from the gutted shell of the old building.

If Kindred had asserted themselves in Washington, D.C. before the buming, they didn't afterward. Aside from Arthur Carroll, most vampires assumed from that time on that Washington was the province of the Ventrue, and they chose not to struggle for it.

Furthermore, in the early years of the United States history, the city wasn't very important. Congress made some momentous decisions, but most citizens pur more stock in state governors than presidents. The population was inconsistent, dropping radically every winter Efforts to make the capital grow with industry failed as projects such as the Chesapeake and Chio Canal were outdone by Baltimore's B\&O Railroad. Further- more, unlike most cities, Washington couldn't tax its businesses, because its only business was the federal govemment

Washington had little growth until the government begin building more monuments. In the 1830s through the 1850s, work started and stopped on a number of buildings, including the Washington Monument. Five hundred people

year emigrated to the capital during this time.

Only one o

e clan concerned itself with the nation's capi. The

tal--the Ventrue. They considered Washington, DC. parr of their domain, but as rumors abounded in Europe and in the colonies of one group or another wresting control of the small capital village on the Potomac, the Ventrue decided to assert themselves. During the War of 1812, 3,000 British

The Civil War

Washington, DC. came into its own during the Civil War. For the first four days of the war, the city's 60,000 residents were isolated, as mobs afraid of a southern invasion tore up railroad tracks in Baltimore and the Confederate flag went up over Alexandria. Soon, however, reinforcements from the North reached the city and the Confederates abandoned Alexandria.

D. C. by Night

As a result of the war, Washington, DC grew faster than any other city in the world. More than 500 new residents a day came into the capital. When President Lincoln called for volunteers, Washington was besieged by 30,000 green Union soldiers Suddenly, Washington, DC was a city worthy of a Kindred prince, and rapidly becoming more and more impor tant. As it was situated on the front lines of the war, D.C became the main camp, hospital and supply depot for the Union amy. National decisions now affected the lives of thousands of Americans. Business leaders sent representatives to win contracts from Congress. Lobbyists were created. The presence of the military led to an increased demand for docton, animal handlers and cooks. A police force became necessary to handle the sudden surge in crime.

The Brujah rallied to Washington, DC, calling other Kindred to join with them to break pro-slavery Ventrue influence over the capital. The Toreador quickly joined forces with the Ventrue, supporting the rights of states ainst the nation. Neither of these aristocratic clans had any desire to watch one city become more important than their southern strongholds.

Despite the desires of the Ventrue and the Toreador, the Brujah Prince of Georgetown, Arthur Carroll, declared himself Prince of Washington, D. C. As long as he had the support of anarchs and his clan, he managed to control the city. Unfortunately, his reign didn't last long after the

CSA

Confederate victory during the First Battle of Bull Run, as his allies fled, fearing for the safety of the Union capital.

During the war, the center of the Mall. Washington's city green, held dozens of open-air triages to care for casual ties. The smell of rotting flesh fought with the smell of the raw sewage which flooded the banks of the Tiber during the war's humid summers. Flies buzzed continuously, and screams from dying soldiers echoed over the landscape.

Mary Nosferatu found the fetid atmosphere to their liking. Several enjoyed stealing Union uniforms and wan- dering the streets of Washington without bothering to not handle its sudden growth. Over 30,000 horses fouled up disguise themselves further with Obfuscate. The city could

the area known as Foggy Bottom. Dysentery, typhoid and scarlet fever ravaged the population. Before the war, Wash ington DC. had one hospital. By its end. 36 hospitals held 50,000 patients.

The Rise of Marissa

An Assamice assassinated Arthur Carroll midway through the war, shocking the Kindred of Washington. DC Word spread that James Harrison, an elder Ventrue living in Richmond, had hired the assassin in order no

Chapter Two: History

20

D. C. by Night

JASON

ensure that when Washington fell to the Confederates, there would be little resistance to a new prince. Most of D.C's vampires went cowering into their havens out of fear that the Ventrue and Toreador would soon send Stonewall Jackson's or Robert E. Lee's armies to capture the capital. Many assumed that a French or British fleet would come sailing up the Potomac to repeat the lessons of 1812.

A Tremere mystic named Marissa, who had been Em- braced shortly before the War of 1812, seized the moment. She claimed the princedom of Washington, and the Tremere clan gave her the title of Pontifex in the hopes that somehow this woman would prove worthy as a leader. The Tremere were disappointed that she was their best candidate for Prince inside the city. If travel had been easier in war-torn America. then the Tremere would never have left the city in her hands.

Marissa proved remarkably competent as a leader. She realised that if the war ended and she did not have a strong grip on the reins of Washington, then her time as prince would end. Her first action was to make a firm alliance with the most numerous residents of the city, the Nosferatu. Then she had messengers send out letters to Toreador and Ventnie princes discussing the Brujah threat in Washington. Although none of these letters remain extant, it is said that Marissa's tactics included strong use of racism as well as the standard antianarch invectives. The number of freed slaves living in the nation's capital was a growing concem for many of the residents, and she insisted that this "problem" would haunt other Union cities if she did not have the authority to take immediate measures.

Marissa then had her ghouls raid the most important treasure troves of D.C.-the Library of Congress and the Smithsonian Institution: Finding several documents of mystical importance and magical items, Marissa ser about increasing her own personal power.

Marissa proved to be more than able as a politician. She used her sex to her advantage, currying favors from male ghoulsand Kindred, then playing them off against one another in the style of Queen Victoria. In fact, her politics were so much like those of Queen Victoria that rumors surfaced that she had been a lover of Dr. John Dee and/or a member of the Technocracy. Most of her manipulations took place on the local level, however, and she took a hands-off approach to national govemment. This policy allowed her reign to go almost unopposed in Europe and in the north

When the war ended, Ventrue and Toreador domains in the South were rumed. The clans set themselves to the chore of rebuilding their own cities rather than contesting Marissa's control of Washington, DC. Marissa's nile had pleased the Nosferatu and the Malkavians, who had watched the number of asylums and hospitals grow rapidly in the city. The Brujah had a difficult time accepting the new Prince, but a few took some solace in the fact that she was a Tremere woman, which they knew must grate on the male-domi- nated clan. The Gangrel, for their part, didn't care.

By the end of the Civil War, Marissa controlled a city with a population of 1,000,000. The mortal population quickly fell to about 130,000, but the Kindred population did not decline from its wartime numbers.

The Nosferatu and Malkavians were loyal to Marissa, and the Ventrue and Toreador in the South soon owed her enough boons to neutralize any challenge from them. Marissa's only real threat came from her own clan. The chantry in Washington, set up in the Octagon House, was primarily loyal to her. She had weeded out those who might pose threats to her reign during the war. However, Clan Tremere decided that a woman could not run a chantry or lead one of their most important cities in the New World. They sent a replacement, Alexander Hanson.

Hanson never arrived in Washington. Although many rumors surfaced about his fate, most believe D.C.'s Nosferatu had swarms of rats devour him, fearing that Hanson would not give them the privileges and liberties they enjoyed under Marissa. In any event, Clan Tremere decided to let Marissa's rule continue, for it soon became apparent that Sabbat-controlled New York would become the real seat of power in the United States, as robber barons gained mote wealth following the war. The clan preferred to spend their efforts in several attempes to retake the Sabbat stronghold.

The tragic assassination of Abraham Lincoln at Ford's Theater stunned the city and the country. Mobs threatened to burn down the theatre after Lincoln died. John Wilkes Booth, the assassin, was shot against orders when Union soldiers trapped him in a barn. His supposed fellow conspirators were arrested and four of the six were hung for their crimes.

to

The change from strong leadership in the White House

off in the long run, however, helping to draw more people to the capital and to win the investments of foreign governments

The main difficulties were the ongoing racial conflicts Many liberated slaves went to the nation's capital, seeking opportunities and the chance to enjoy the fruits of freedom. Soon, fighting and rioting broke our between whites and blacks, and wealthy white residents convinced Congress to strip residents of the District of the right to vore. They preferred no vote to a black one.

Workers completed the Washington Monument, filled in the marsh where East Potomac Park is located, and built the Library of Congress, Land values rose as multimillionaires made purchases of and houses in the capital. The power of vampire clars shifted as well. The Nosferatu and Malkavian support that Marissa had used to gain the domain of Wash- ington, DC was not going to work any longer. Toreador and Ventrue had power once more, and disaffected Brujah were raising the banners of anarchy.

Showing off her political skills, Marissa offered the French Toreador a boon in return for the support of their clan members in Washington, DC. Marissa restored the L'Enfant plan to its rightful place as a guide for the develop ment of the city. The Toreador agreed, and with their support, it was not difficult for Marissa to forge an alliance that would ensure her position against Brujah (who wanted to overthrow her for the racial problems and her defeat of Arthur Carroll) and Ventrue enemies (who saw Washing ton, DC. as their property, dating back to its first days). In the meantime, the actual influence of Washington waned. as business leaders bought more and more politicians.

the weak abomionof Andes how The 20th Century

Grant allowed Marissa to expand her influence. As the Legislative Branch took on more authority, Prince Marissa started taking more control of national politics. She found that manipulating Congressmen drew less attention from the Camarilla than did trying to influence the President or his advisors. This was partially because several Old World vampires discounted the United States completely and half- expected the Americans to move their capital from Washington to the center of the country.

Washington, DC. flourished after the end of the war, once the few cries to move the capital died down. High society started to come to Washington, and with it came the Toreador and Ventrue. Marissa accepted the new clans, though she required several pledges of loyalty.

Congress refused money to improve the roads or to fill in the Tiber Creek, so Marissa transformed a young politician, Alexander Shepard, into a ghoul to help fix the city. Shepard cleaned up Washington, paved roads and planted trees. He bat sewers, and thus was able to fill in the Tiber Creek. Several monuments were completed under his direction, al- though the costs of these improvements bankrupted the city. and as a result, Shepard was thrown out of town. His work paid

By the early 20th Century, Washington, DC. had became one of the most beautiful cities in the world, a capital blossoming just as the nation expanded its influence. Despite attempts on her life, anarch revolutionaries, and Sabbat attacks, Marissa's grip on Washington, DC. grew tighter. A few called her the Queen of the United States, others called her much worse thing. Marissa had many enemies, both at home and across the globe, but she learned to manipulate Washington's growing importance into pres rige and prestation across the country and around the world.

When President McKinley was killed by an anarchist's bullet, Theodore Roosevelt became President of the United States. A few Kindred historians see Marisa's hand in the assamination, as both she and Washington benefited from the rise of Theodore Roosevelt. Teddy Roosevelt took on JP Morgan and several of the most powerful businessmen in America, using his authority to break up their trusts. By doing so, Roosevelt took power away from business and gave it to the government.

After United States victories in the Spanish-American War and World War I, Washington became a symbol for the

Chapter Two: History

growing sense of national pride. Several beautification projects served to help clean up the city. The Mall, then covered in train tracks, was restored to greenery. Union Station was constructed north of the Capitol Building, and all trains coming to the city stopped here.

Marissa ruled with a velvet glove and a grip of iron. By the time of the Great Depression, even ourside Tremere could not find a way inside the political machinations of the city. Marissa tied everything to herself and her aides. Noth ing could remove her without allowing anarchs or Sabbat to seize control in the ensuing conflict. Camarilla elders be- came sightly concerned about how much influence the Prince of Washington, DC. might have over world events.

When Prohibition started, organized crime reached an apex in Washington, DC. Many of those who bought alcohol were the rich and politically powerful, possibly including President Harding. Marissa gave Ventrue ship- pers no trouble entering her city; however, she had difficulties with Giovanni pawns. The strange necromantic abilities of the Giovanni, coupled with their business acumen, both- ered Marissa. She saw them as a potential threat, so she blamed rising crime and dangers to the Masquerade on the Giovanni, all but banning the clan from her domain. In the process, she granted the Ventrue some boons and used prestation with the Ventrue to help maintain her position.

During World War II, the population of Washington, D.C. swelled again. Marisa extracted pledges of loyalty in exchange for granting all of the clans rights to create progeny. However, by the end of World War II, the United States had established itself as a superpower and the Camarilla felt it could not afford to allow one Cainite to control all of Washington, DC. Marissa held the lords of Europe and America in her palm, and the Camarilla did not like it. Plots to eliminate the well-established Prince began to blossom

The Times of Change

22

During the 1960s, Marissa's paradise began to crumble around her, set off by the entrance of Marcus Vitel of Clan Ventrue. Most Tremere agree that Marisa was a fool to allow Vitel to enter her city. Some believe Marissa craved an opponent, that she wanted the excitement a powerful rival like Vitel would generate. A few say that Marissa was lonely after so many years of powerand conflict, and that she desired the strength and passion of an immortal like Vitel.

Today, many believe that Vitel somehow dominated or manipulated Marissa, perhaps even managed to Blood Bound the Tremere Pontifex. This seems unlikely in the extreme, and if it was the case, the Tremere seem to have taken it lying down. No one knows for sure how Vitel accomplished this feat, though many would give anything to find out

Prince Marissa started her relationship with Marcus Vitel in an attempt to gain influence over the Ventrue. She found the ancient warrior fascinating, and he was impressed by her

D. C. by Night

holdness and her fire. Their relationship was turbulent: they also protected members of the Senate, Cabinet and officials would be lovers one night, and opponents the next.

Brujah uprisings in Washington, DC marked the 1960s. Marissa's political acumen seemed to vanish after she met Vitel. She spent more time away from other Kindred, working on pet projects or passing night after night at the Arlington National Cemetery. The city progressively grew more out of control.

In 1968, following the death of Martin Luther King, Jr. the Brujah and Nosteranuose up in noralongside the African- American community. The Brujah wanted to shatter the power of the Kindred elders. Many of the Nosferatu partici pared in the rioting for their own moral reasons. Most of downtown DC and the African-American community's night spots went up in flames during the rots. Taking advan tage of this night of terror and confusion, the Sabbat attacked several Kindred havens. That same night, Marcus Vitel be trayed Marissa to agents of the Camarilla. Archons destroyed her, impressing upon Marcus Vitel the danger of a similar fate the ever grasped for too much influence in the city.

Thenext evening, Marcus Virel declared himself Prince of Washington, DC. Marissa was gone. Vitel's ghouls were every where. The Tremere were outraged, and one member of the Tremere, Vadim Ivanov, rashly challenged Marcus Vitel to a duel. Vitel accepted. Using Thaumaturgy, he sent the Tremere screaming into Final Death. He wamed all other challengers that death would be the fate of those who opposed him.

Vitel immediately called a Blood Hunt against the "slay ers of Marissa, who he said were Giovanni. Since there were noGiovanni near Washington, DC, Prince Vitel felt safe that no one would step up and dispute his claim. If he had blamed the Sabbat, word would have traveled to Baltimore and beyond, and the truth might have returned to Washington

The Glory that was Washington

Marcus Vitel wasted no time in establishing himself as the power in Washington, DC. Those who supported the new Prince were rewarded with blood, ghouls and hunting grounds. Vitel called a meeting of a primogen council to advise him on issues. A new Tremere Pontifex entered the

city, Peter Dorfman, who immediately assumed a position of friendly (for vampire politics) opposition to the Prince.

Vitel's reign has been harsh, but most say it has also been fair. He spent most of his time suppressing anarch influence, and by the time of the Bicentennial celebration, few anarchs had the courage to enter D.C. Vitel also proved his power against world players who tried to challenge his influence over Washington. The new Prince declared sev eral areas of the city to be part of an expanded Elysium. He

in the House of Representatives from direct "tampering."

Washington expanded and the Camarilla was pleased with Vitel's reign. The Inner Circle of the Tremere were glad that Marissa would no longer be a challenge to their power. They assigned one of its members, Meerlinda, to keep a careful eye on Peter Dorfman, so that he wouldn't seize too much authority. Vitel kept the anarchs and Sabbat out, and although a caern of werewolves established itself in the city, Marcus kept a tight leash on their activities

Many elders began spending time in Washington, D.C., widely regarded as a secure hastion against the Sabbat. Vitel's reputation for running a city grew, but unlike many Kindred, he never spent much time associating with his clan leaders in Europe or spreading his influence over interna tional circles. Instead, the Prince of Washington, DC, kept his activities centered around the city itself.

The Times of Darkness

About the time Reagan moved into the White House, Washington, DC. began to change, Crime rates rose and drugs became more popular. Southeast D.C. didn't just collapse-it went into free fall. Sabbat problems began to plague the Prince. Slowly, chinks were growing in Viel's armor. Some Kindred even claimed to have seen the ghost of Marissa, or caught a glimpse of Vitel staring at a locker remarkably similar to one Marissa had worn

Vitel declared Southeast a free hunting ground, and he fostered the tides of crime instead of resisting them. This way, when a victim vanished, he was just another statistic rather than a violation of the Masquerade. The Prince let a few anarchs enter the city. Rumors of Setite influence in the drug markets surfaced.

Sabbat attacks wiped out many of the Toreador elders inside Washington, DC. (Marissa's old allies). A number of the victims of the onslaught were enemies of the Prince, although more than a few of his allies also fell. Many Camarilla members quietly fear that the Prince may have some connec tion to the Sabbat, or that he had arranged a deal with them.

Now, with the fall of Chicago's Prince Lodin, Prince Vitel stands as one of the few strong Camarilla princes left in the United States. Camarilla leaders worry about Vitel's ethics, and the debate rages over whether he should be supported as a bastion against the tide of Sabbat arracks or purged for his suspected corruption.

Chapter Two: History

23

1445

Chapter Three: Geography

In fancy now beneath the twilight gloom, Come let me lead thee o'er this second Rome

\-Thomas Moore

Washington, DC. lies at the very south end of the East Coast urban sprawl which extends all the way north to Boston. The District of Columbia has a population of about 650,000, but this is a bit misleading. The nation's capitol is surrounded on all sides by smaller cities. Both Alexandria and Rockville are major populition centers in their own rights, the latter being the second largest city in Maryland The entire metro area, excluding Baltimore, has a popula tion of almost four million. The Baltimore area adds 2.3 million more.

Still, it is D.C. itself which makes up the heart and soul of this area. Mortals with far more power than most Kindred ever achieve have lived in Washington; there are monu- ments to many of them in the District. A sourcebook twice this size couldn't go into detail on every aspect of any city, and Washington has more important locations than most. What follows are some of the more important locations in the World of Darkness, though Storytellers should feel free to add or subtract as they so desire.

The District of Columbia

The District of Columbia is a semi-diamond shaped area between Virginia and Maryland. The city is divided into four sections Northwest, Northeast, Southwest and Southeast-all of which meet at the U.S. Capitol building.

The Mall

When most people think of Washington, D.C., the Mall and the surrounding buildings and monuments are what come to mind. This grassy area stretches herween the Washington Monument and the US. Capitol Building and lies along the border of Northwest and Southwest Washing- ton. The Lincoln Memorial stands near the Potomac to the west of the Mall, beyond the Washington Monument Slightly south of the Mall, in East Potomac Park, is the Jefferson Memorial. Numerous other sites, such as the

Chapter Three: Geography

25

Washington, D.C.and Vicinity

Maryland

Virgina

Fredericksburg

Maryland

Potomachve

Virginia

Baltimore

Annapol

Washington

Mictyranum Cop

19

136

\+

1.The Mall 2.Lincoln Memorial 3.Washington Monument 4.Jefferson Memorial 5.East Potomac Park

6\. Rock Creek Park 7.White House B.Old Downtown 9.Federal Triangle 10.Octagon House 11.Foggy Bottom

Washington, D.C.

12.Georgetown 13.Georgetown University 14.Dumbarton Oaks 15.Dupont Circle

16.Washington National Cathedral 17.American University 18.Adams-Morgan

19.National Zoo 20.Howard University 21.Capitol Hill

22.Union Station

23.Galludet University 24.Catholic University 25.RFK Stadium

26 National Arboretum

27 Kenilworth Aquatic Gardens 28 Fort McNair

29 Washington Navy Yard 30 Naval Air Base

31.Bollings AFB

28

D. C. by Night

Elysium

Prince Vitel and his Primogen Council have de clared several buildings in Washington, DC. to be Elysium. If a major violation of the Masquerade occurs at a place not considered Elysium, the Prince will add that location temporarily to the list of Elysium loca tions in order to prevent further damage to the Masquerade.

Here is a list of current sites considered part of Elysium:

The Smithsonian Institution and all of its museums The White House

The Old Executive Building

The Capitol

The Supreme Court Building

The Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

Arlington National Cemetery

The Lincoln Memorial

The Washington Monument Hotel Washington

National Archives

National Archives, the Library of Congress, the Supreme Court Building, and, of course, the White House, sit within a few blocks.

The Smithsonian

The Smithsonian Institution holds more than 135 million objects, only about one percent of which are on display at any time. The rest of the objects are kept in storage at scattered locations throughout the city and suburbs. The Kindred, especially the Tremere, draw on the resources of the Smithsonian when they seek mystical items or elements to perform rituals. Several elders have located different storage areas and have ghouls with access to them

The Smithsonian Institution surrounds most of the Mall and the Smithsonian Institution Building, or the Castle, stands near its center. This red sandstone, Norman- style edifice was originally built in 1855 to hold all of the Smithsonian's operations. James Smithson's body was brought to America in 1904 and lies entombed next to the Mall entrance of the Castle.

The Institution is one of the most widely-visited places on Earth. What follows is a list of the most popular attractions. Kindred needing any sort of odd artifacts and willing to risk one of the most advanced security systems in the world need only look here.

The Arts and Industries Museum, the second build- ing the Smithsonian museum constructed, contains collections of Americans. The most interesting elements of

this museum are the experimental displays, where curators give their imaginations free reign. One exhibit that remains open in the World of Darkness is a homeless display requir ing visitors to enter by sliding through a morgue drawer.

More than 12 million people visit the National Air and Space Museum each year, quire possibly making it the most widely-visited attraction on the planet. Missiles, space craft and airplanes are featured in this museum. The most valuable item on display is a four-billion-year-old moon tock. After some attempts had been made to steal the moon rock, museum curators had a state-of-the-art security system installed to protect it. The city's primogen have long argued over the relative safety of the moon rock, in light of its proximity to the Garou caer in East Potomac Park. They believe the werewolves want to use the spiritual power of the moon rock in their mystic ceremonies. A few suggest that the Garou might wish to forge a weapon from the stone.

A favorite elder night spot is the National Gallery of Art. Some vampires use their favorite painting as a backdrop when they make announcements or speeches. Paintings that are no longer displayed, may wind up hanging in the haven of an elder.

The National Museum of Natural History is a favorite of many Kindred, especially those in need of rare elements for rituals. At the entrance stands a stuffed 13-foot-tall African Elephant. To the right, the Dinosaur Hall has several sets of fossils wired together. On the second level, the gem and mineral display is among the richest in the world, second only to the Crown Jewels of England. Among notable stones are the Logan Sapphire (423 carats), the Oppenheimer Diamond (253.7 carats) and the legendary Hope Diamond. Among the guards are ghouls who have special orders to protect these gems from all potential thieves.

The National Museum of American History contains a great deal of American cultural memorabilia, including a steam locomotive. Foreign Toreador enjoy visiting the permanent display of the dresses worn by America's First Ladies and comment on American style-or lack thereof.

The Freer Gallery of Art contains many Oriental pieces. The Smithsonian can neither loan out objects from the Freer Gallery, nor display any other art alongside the Freer collection. The Smithsonian Metro stands in front of the Freer. Nosferatu ser their ghouls to keep a continuous watch on the station

Beside the Freer Gallery stands the Enid Haupt Memorial Garden. Beneath the garden are two under- ground museums: the Sackler Gallery and the National Museum of African Art. The Sackler contains other Orien tal pieces, while the National Museum of African Art has items from hundreds of cultures. The Nosferatu have a tunnel that leads from the sewers and metro into the National Museum of African Art. This gives the Sewer Rats

The EYES F Vitel

Chapter Three: Geography

easy access into Elysium. The Nosferatu enjoy and protect the underground museums

The Hirshhorn Museum, established in 1974, was funded by a Latvian immigrant who made his fortune with uranium mines. Some refer to the Hirshhom as the "dough nut on the Mall." The museum displays an impressive collection of modern art, and a sunken sculpture garden fills the building's central courtyard.

In and Around the Mall

The Bureau of Engraving and Printing stands next to the Mall. The Bureau prints out currency worth 22.5 million dollars every day. Washington's vampire population avoids this building, because a group of Technocracy mages have a headquarters here.

The United States Holocaust Museum is also avoided by most Kindred. The disturbing atmosphere of the museum can cause Derangements among the more unstable vam pires.

The Monuments

The Lincoln Memorial

Prince Vitel enjoys visiting the Lincoln Memorial, and he sometimes holds audiences there. The anarchs cringe at the mere thought of Marcus Vitel receiving guests where Martin Luther King, Jr. gave his "I have a Dream" speech.

From the west side of the Lincoln Memorial, a person can look out across the Potomac River and see the Eternal Flame flickering in front of John F. Kennedy's grave. The Prince's favorite haven, the Lee House, is also visible. The lower level of the Lincoln Memorial provides an entrance to a series of catacombs that run beneath the Mall. Nosterma have connected these catacombs to the Metro and sewer

systems.

Lit by floodlights, the white marble structure seems to glow at night. Thirty-six columns circle the outside of the building, one for each state in the union when Lincoln was president. Inside is a massive white marble statue of Abraham Lincoln, 19 feet tall and wide. His second Inaugural Address and the Gettysburg Address are carved into the walls of the chamber.

The Washington Monument

Prince Vitel also spends some nights alone or with one of his "daughters" atop the Washington Monument, survey ing his city. The anarchs refer to the two red airplane lights on top of the obelisk as the Eyes of Vitel. The Washington Monument stands 555 feet tall the tallest piece of masonry in the world. Discolorations are visible where the construction of the monument had stopped and then re- started. An impressive circle of American flags surrounds the base.

30

D. C. by Night

The Sept of the Awakening

On the southern tip of East Potomac Park lies a sculpture called the Awakening. This figure represents a spiritual force rising from the earth, revered by the werewolves who protect the area. The Lupines of Wash- ington, DC are primarily members of the Bone Gnawer tribe. The sept of wolves makes decisions through. debate and voting. Because of their precarious situation inside the Wyrm-infested ciry of Washington, they will accept any Garou who wishes to obey their laws, regard- less of any former crimes she may have committed against other septs or tribes. These "Bone-Gnawers" maintain contacts with the Nosferatu and Gangrel clans. The Lupines currently have a precarious trace with the Kindred of the city.

East Potomac Park and the Jefferson Memorial

Lupine attacks sometimes shatter the Elysium. The Prince knows that a sept of wolves has established itself in East Potomac Park, and they have control over the Jefferson Memorial and the entire tidal basin. Vitel has made a few attempts to destroy the Garou, but the werewolves have apparently enacted a rite of protection which wards off magical (and magickal) attacks. The Garou claim that they are protected by the spirit of the caern, which grows more powerful with every year (see Caerns: Places of Power for more details).

The Jefferson Memorial is a round pantheon-style building next to the Potomac Tidal Basin. Inside stands a bronze statue of the former president, his quotes printed on the surrounding walls. Around the monument are Wash- ington, DC's famous cherry blossoms.

Northwest D.C.

This is the largest and richest section of Washington, D.C, as well as the area of the city with the lowest crime rate. It is also the most expensive place to live. A two- bedroom apartment may run $1400 dollars a month or more in rent. Sirens are a constant part of the background noise of Northwest, as police quickly respond to incidents in these neighborhoods. Most of the white residents of the District live in Northwest D.C., and 16th Street along with Rock Creek Park mark a strange color boundary between the black and white populations.

Federal Triangle and Old Downtown

The area along Pennsylvania Avenue was long consid- ered a national disaster, with pawn shops and dilapidated

buildings lining the thoroughfare from the Capitol to the White House. When the 1968 riots wrecked downtown D.C. between the diamond formed by New York, Pennsyl vania, Louisiana, and Massachusetts Avenues, many businesses shut down and moved away. In recent years, however, rebuilding has begun. Developers have rediscov ered this section of the city. Additionally, the Federal Triangle in this section houses a large number of govern ment offices. Neonates who spend too much time near Federal Triangle tend to earn the displeasure of the city's elders.

Pension Building

Located on F Street between 4th and 5th Streets, this red brick building has hosted Inaugural balls for more than a century. The interior Corinthian columns (which are painted to resemble siena marble) support a roof 75 feet above the floor. The room inside is vast. All of the city's elders enjoy using the Pension Building to throw parties and balls for visitors. The Pension Building also holds the National Building Museum.

National Archives

The National Archives building stands between Penn- sylvania Avenue and Constitution Avenue and 7th and 9th Streets. During the day, the Archives display the Declara tion of Independence, the Constitution and the Bill of Rights, but these are locked away in a vault before the Kindred rise. Many government records are stored away in the National Archives, and several Kindred have ties to the building's staff. However, most of the National Archives records are in storage in Suitland, Maryland, one of the suburbs.

Old Post Office

One of the great secrets of Washington, DC is the Old Post Office located on 12th Street and Pennsylvania Av enue. Relatively few tourists vait the building or know about the extraordinary view from its clock tower. In 1899, when it was built, it was the largest government building in the city, and the first to have a power plant and a clock tower. The view of Washington, D.C. from the Old Post Office's clock tower is almost as impressive as the view from the Washington Monument. The spacious courtyard inte rior of the Old Post Office was renovated in the 1980s and transformed into the Old Post Office Pavilion surrounded by shops and restaurants. The Old Post Office is another site that serves as a gathering place when the need arises to assemble all Kindred for proclamations by the Prince

Chapter Three: Geography

31

32

Government Hunters

All contact with government hunters, including the FBI, the CIA, the NSA, the IRS and the ATE (Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms) is prohib ited without the direct permission of the Prince. Due to the threats that these agencies pose, few D.C. Kindred will tolerate neorutes tampering with them. Only es tablished Ventrue and Tremere may deal with anyone associated with these organizations. The FBI has a headquarters in the J. Edgar Hoover Building on Penn- sylvania Avenue, across from the headquarters of the Department of Justice. The J. Edgar Hoover Building has very high security. The CIA bases itself out of nearby Langley, Virginia, and the NSA has several locations in the Maryland suburbs.

The White House and surrounding areas

The eyes of the world continually remain focused on the residents of 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. The White House, the home of the President of the United States and its grounds are Elysium. Likewise, the Blair House and the Old Executive Building (formerly the State-War-Navy

Building) are also Elysium. Younger Kindred are subtly discouraged from visiting any of these buildings.

The area around the Chief Executive's mansion is one of the centers of vampiric activity inside the District be cause it contains the Octagon House, the long-time location of the Tremere Chantry, and the Hotel Washington, where the Prince holds most of his audiences.

The Octagon House

The only original structure, aside from the White House, remaining in the city is the Octagon House, located on New York Avenue and 18th Street, NW. This house of Georgian design actually has only six sides and a rounded front tower. It was built by William Thornton, the designer of the Capitol and the man who saved the U.S. Patent Office from British torches in 1814

Colonel John Tayloe was its first resident. His daughter died in the house after falling down its flight of stairs. Her ghost is said to linger here, but the Tremere have not noticed such a spirit moving through the halls. The house gained fame in 1814 when President Madison took up residence here while the White House was being rebuilt. The Treaty of Ghent, which ended the War of 1812, was signed inside the Octagon House.

The Tremere use the house as their chantry in the World of Darkness. The clan controls and protects the

D. C. by Night

house using the American Institute of Architects, which is officially responsible for it, as a front organization. Tunnels beneath the house lead to the Potomac River. Other tunnels leading to the White House constructed in the Octagon House's early history are sealed. Most Tremere rituals are conducted in the basement and the tunnels beneath the itecture. The Tremere have a labyrinth beneath the house, which can only be navigated with the aid of a candle-one follows the direction in which the candleflame points.

The Hotel Washington

Marcus Vitel receives most of his visitors here, provid ing them a spectacular view of the monuments at night, as well as and a powerful reminder of how much Marcus Vitel controls. These audiences are always staged with other elders present, impressing upon visitors or neonates the importance of making a good impression with the Prince.

The suite Prince Vitel shows his guests is elegantly deconsted, with just a hint of the clasical Roman style he favors. The far wall consists mainly of the large windows that afford the view of the city. In the center of another wall a fireplace which is always blazing in the cool fall and winter months. A bedroom beside the main suite has no windows and provides an adequate haven for the day.

Foggy Bottom

North of the White House area, beyond Lafayette Park and south of Georgetown, is Foggy Bottom. This area contains some prime hunting grounds, including George Washington University. Many societies and agencies have beadquarters in Foggy Bottom, including the National Academy of Sciences. A metro station serves this area.

The Watergate

Situated on the edge of the Potomac River, the Watergate is an impressive complex of offices and apart- ments, well known for the break-ins which resulted in scandal and the removal of President Nixon from office. Visiting vampires have traditionally made the Watergate a hase of operations for activities in the city.

The Kennedy Center

The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts is one of Washington DC'scultural jewels and part of Elysium. The outside of the center, covered in white marble, has a cakebox look to it. The Grand Foyer inside is 630 feet long, its ceiling graced with 18 chandeliers. There are five the- aters within the center, which are used for dance, plays, concerts, opera, etc. The American Film Institute also has a theatre inside. The flags of the Hall of States and Hall of Nations inside have flags hanging from the walls, and on the roof terrace level, Congress maintains a Library of Perform ing Arts

Georgetown

In the District's early years, while the nation's capital languished, George Town was a bustling port for tobacco merchants. A few years after being annexed by Washington, D.C., George Town asked to be returned to Maryland, hut instead remained part of the city. The area's economy collapsed for a number of years afterward but was success- fully revived and restored in the 1950

Now the wealthy neighborhood is home to club own ers, lawyers, politicians and bureaucrats galore. The historic preservation movements in Georgetown managed to pre- vent a metro station from going up in the area, despite the fact that after dark, the restaurants, night clubs and shops attract people from throughout the DC. metro area. M Street and Wisconsin Avenue can offer almost everything except a parking space. Included among these clubs is the Black Magic Club, which is continually filled with Blood Dolls and other Goths.

During Halloween Georgetown takes on a Mardi Gras style atmosphere. The city government has tried to stop these celebrations, but in the World of Darkness, their attempts have only made matters worse. On these wild occasions, people in costume fill the streets and let them- selves go completely. Both elders and anarchs join in the festivities.

Georgetown University

Another area of the city forbidden to Kindred is Georgetown University. This school, the oldest Jesuit school in America, is one of the centers for the Inquisition. The university was built in the Gothic style, with several spires and gargoyles decorating the campus. Several careless undead residents of Washington, DC. have met their ends at the hands of the hunters from Georgetown

The C\&O Canal

This canal, originally meant to keep George Town's port open and turn Washington, DC. into an industrial giant, is now a tourist attraction. In the summers, mules pull harges along the canal. There are many tunnels leading to the canal from across the city, and many unwelcome guests, including werewolves, enter the city by following the canal from Cumberland, Maryland.

K Street

At the end of Georgetown, Wisconsin Avenue inter sects K Street, which nuns beneath the Whitehurst Freeway The bridge over K Street lends it an eerie feel. At night, the street beneath the Whitehurst gets very dark, and it has become a favorite site for resolving disputes betweens vam pires.

Chapter Three: Geography

33

Black MAGIC

Dumbarton Oaks

On 32nd Street, north of R Street, sits Dumbarton Daks. This house contains a collection of rare Byzantine and South American artwork. It once served as a haven for the Tremere Prince, Marissa, but has stayed deserted since her disappearance in 1968, Behind the building are 10 acres of the most beautiful gardens in the city. Fountains, brick walls, terraces, and benches make it a scenic place to visit.

Beyond the gardens are two parks, Montrose Park on the east side and Dumbarton Oaks Park on the north and west Past Montrose Park lies the Oak Hill Cemetery which overlooks Rock Creek. A Gothic chapel stands sentinel over the cemetery's obelisks, crosses and other statuary and tombstones. Some vampires believe that on the certain nights, the ghost of former Prince Marissa still wanders the gardens and haunts the Oak Hill Cemetery. Another numer is that Marissa is not dead, just lying hidden in torpor somewhere near Dumbarton Oaks.

Dupont Circle

Three of the most important streets in Washington- Massachusetts, Connecticut a

ut and New Hampshire Avenues -come together at Dupont Circle. In the center of the green circle stands a fountain decorated with the figures of Sea, Stars and Wind. In the 1960s, Dupont Circle became a rallying point for counterculture movements. In D.C Today, its cultural and ethnic bookstores and restaurants make it home ni many members of the young intelligentia. The District's gay community has a strong presence around Dupont Circle. A metro station lies beneath Circle. Other entrances to the underground are locked and chained. These lead down to the old subway system, primarily the province of D.C.'s Nosferatu

The Washington National Cathedral

Located at the intersection of two of Northwest's major streets, Wisconsin and Massachusetts Avenue, the Gothic towers of the cathedral dominate the surrounding land- scape. The Washington National Cathedral is the sixth largest cathedral in the world. The National Cathedral and its grounds are off limits to the Kindred of D.C. Some Tremere suspect Celestial Chorus mages of operating around the cathedral and most others suspect that hunters use it a a hase.

Embassy Row

Starting at Dupont Circle and heading north along Massachusetts Avenue is Embassy Row, which inchides clusters of embassies and legations. The largest embassy in Washington is the British Embassy, which resembles a manor house. A statue of Winston Churchill stands in front.

34

D. C. by Night

Alio along Embassy Row are many of Washington's most exclusive social clubs, such as the Cosmos Club. The city's male elders have memberships in several of the clubs.

Upper Northwest

The rest of Northwestern D.C. is primarily residential, with the exception of the shops lining Wisconsin Avenue. The American University, chartered by Congress and best known for its international and political science depart ments, lies next to Ward Circle, where Nebraska Avenue meets Massachusetts Avenue.

Much of this area was used as military barracks and for

Capitol Hill

Referred to only as "The Hill" by residents, this area of the city consists of sections of all four parts of the District. The Capitol is the centerpiece, located where all of the boundaries intersect. Numerous governmental and political organizations have offices nearby, and several aides live in neighboring Victorian-style homes. Despite suggestions that he would forbid Kindred activity around the Hill, the Prince has only proscribed the Supreme Court Building and the Capitol az Elysium

weapons testing during the World Wars. Several unexploded The Capitol

shells have been found in gardens and beneath streets in the area. A few of the Nosferatu believe undiscovered armories and hidden bunkers lie between the houses of Northwest.

Adams-Morgan

Adams-Morgan, located south of Cleveland Park in the heart of the city, is Washington's melting pot of ethnic groups. Its excellent resturants, Bohemian atmosphere and wild night life draw almost as many visitors as Georgetown Most of the apartments near Adams-Morgan were built in the 19th century and have an omate feel to them. Several of the city's Kindred frequent Adams-Morgan

Rock Creek Park

Cutting through the northern half of the District is the 160-acre Rock Creek Park, home to the National Zoo, one of the largest toos in America. Numerous stretches of trees, broken only by streams, the occasional bike trails, and various picnic areas, fill the park, and groups of wild deerlive in the woods. The Gangrel like to hold meetings here. Several Kindred in the city believe the Garou have a cer in Rock Creek Park. It is also said that a coven of witches work magick somewhere within the park and often hold rituals deep in the wood.

A New Age group called the Verbena has developed a following in the District and the suburbs, especially among the young. The reasons for this vary, but many people are fed up with the politics and society of Washington, DC. and

eck new religious experiences.

Howard University

One of the country's largest traditionally black univer sities, the area around Howard has its own night life targeted at the student body. In contrast to this wild scene, Howard University also has a memorial chapel which radiates true faith.

The Capitol was designed ina Roman style reminiscent of the Pantheon, and its enormous 285-foot-high dome is one of Washington's most famous sights. A statue of Free- dom stands atop the dome. Because the Capitol building s always active with reporters and congressmen, Storytellery should take special care not to allow players to interfere with the workings of government. Something, be it Technomancers, elder vampires, or FBI Special Affairs, will stop a group of Kindred from killing dozens of Congressmen or wrecking the Capitol dome unless the Storyteller wants his players to have that much of an impact on the world.

The grounds outside the Capitol were landscaped by the Garou kinfolk Frederick Law Olmstead. The 63 acres of Capitol park add to the beauty of the legislative building.

Union Station

In the early 1900s, Congress decided to beautify the city. In order to remove the large number of train tracks crossing the Mall, it decreed that all trains would use a single depot, Union Station, north of the Capitol Built with white marble, columns, and statuary. Union Station was a great success during its early years, reaching a peak of handling 200,000 or more passengers a day during World War II. During the '60s, the train station fell on hard times Now a restoration project has returned the station to its former grandeur, adding also a number of shops, a food court, and even a movie theater. Union Station also has a metro station, and the Nosferam in Washington use this as a meeting place. Some clans suspect that the Nosferam also have ghouls in Amtrak, and take advantage of its national headquarters in Washington to control many North Ameri

can trains

The Library of Congress

Three main buildings house the Library of Congress the Jefferson Building at Independence Avenue and 1st Street, SE; the Adams Building at 2nd Street, SE; and the James Madison Building between Independence Avenue

Chapter Three: Geography

36

and CStreet. The Captol building originally contained the Library, but as Congress and the nation grew during the expansion of the late 1800s, it expanded to the Jefferson Building

dium are far more important than anything going on in the White House. Washington Redskins fans are rabid, and some reporters claim that covering the football team in D.C. is more important to the local newspapers, than covering such institutions as the Supreme Court. The triumphs and struggles of the football team affect the mood of mortals across the city.

The octagonal Main Reading Room, often shown in pictures of the Library, is located in the Jefferson Building In 1939, the Library's collection of resources and reference materials had increased enough to add the Adams Building. and the Library opened the James Madison Building in 1980. The Library of Congress contains more than 30 million books and at least 60 million other items. Although only Congressmen may check our books, many Kindred have access to the stacks. Using this access, however, means National Arboretum

owing a minor boon to the Tremere.

Ever since Prince Marissa's reign. Clan Tremere has watched over the Library, and control of the Library is one of the few issues that the Tremere will not concede under any circumstances. A number of mages also have ties to the Library of Congress, although the Tremere go to great lengths to avoid them

The Supreme Court

The Supreme Court did not have a building of its own until 1935. The Court is in session from the first Monday in October until it has heard all of its cases, usually sometime in June. Another white marble temple (a few anarchs say Marcus Vitel only came to D.C. because he was homesick for ancient Rome), the Supreme Court building is also off limits to vampires in the city, but sessions of the Court rarely last intothenight anyway. George Lawrence of the Nosferatu sometimes sneaks a few friends inside the building at night, and they go upstairs to the basketball court. George likes to

The stadium also holds concens and whena crowd gets excited the entire building will shake. Located next to RFK is the D.C. Armory, which is used for indoor events like boxing, wrestling, conventions, and circuses.

The Department of Agriculture uses this strange 415- acre-area for the study of trees. Thirty two different types of soil cover the Arboretum, supporting a variety of trees not typically native to the Washington area. The Arboretum is closed at night, but this doesn't prevent Kindred from getting inside. The foot trails are mazelike, however, and the unusual shape of the Arboretum makes it quite possible to get lost at nighttime. The Arboretum borders on Anacostia Park, which surrounds the Anacostia River and follows it into Maryland. Anacostia park includes golf courses and a

marina.

Kenilworth Aquatic Gardens

North of the Arboretum, bordering Anacostia Park, are the Kenilworth Aquatic Gardens-14 acres of ponds filled with subaquatic plants. This unique collection of pools and plants is one of the most bizarre settings in Washington, DC.

beast that he shoots hoops at the highest court in the land Southeast and

As long as the mortals remain undisturbed, the Prince will ignore the trespassing- unless he wants something from George Lawrence.

Northeast

Northeast D.C. is the second largest part of the District. It contains some of the best and worst that Washington.can offer. Galluder University, one of the finest universities in the country, is a well-known school for the deaf. Catholic University, unlike Georgetown, remains fairly free of witch hunters (at least to the best knowledge of the Kindred community) and includes the National Shrine of the Im- maculate Conception, one of the largest Roman Catholic churches in the world. What no vampire knows is that the head of the Society of Leopold in the United States lives near Catholic University in the Brookland neighborhood.

RFK Stadium

For many residents of Washington, DC., the events that occur on certain Sundays at Robert F. Kennedy Sta

D. C. by Night

Southwest

Southeast D.C. has a reputation among residents of the city for being the most violent part of town. Numerous open air drug markets exist in Southeast and many of the people live in perpetual poverty. However, not all of Southeast is an urban jungle-just most of it.

Southwest D.C. is the smallest part of Washington, tucked between the monuments on the Mall, the Potomac river, and Southeast D.C. It includes Fort McNair and u waterfront with a marina. East Potomac Park is also located in Southwest. Crime is not as much of a problem in South- west, because it is patrolled by police protecting the Mall and has the nearby military bases

Fort McNair

The troops at Fort McNair protect the President and guard the city. The fort looks nicer than most army bases, and it contains two military colleges for training officers as

well as one of the finest military libraries in the world. Acrow the Potomac Canal from Fort McNair is East Potomac Park, where the Bone Gnawer Sept of the Awakening lies

Other Military Installations

North and east from Fort McNair along the banks of the Anacostia River sits the Washington Navy Yard, which contains the U.S. Naval Museum. A recent explosion at the Yard destroyed much of the facility, but this would not have interested the Kindred so much were it not for the fact that Vitel immediately forbade any Kindred to enteri the site. Additionally, a number of Archons appeared in town just after the incident, and some Brujah claim the Archons and Vitel's daughters were seen examining the wreckage. Vitel has never explained his actions, though the Yard has re- upened.

On the opposite bank of the Anacostia and down along the Potomas, the Navy also has an air base. Beside the naval air base is Bollings Air Force Base. Other military installa tions are positioned along the rivers in order to protect the nation's capital.

Purgatory

Located on the border of Southeast and Southwest and dose to the waterfront, Purgatory is the Brujah's very own

pit-stop on the way to Hell. The club serves as the unofficial Elysium of the underclass of Kindred society. Loud music and pervasive smoke overwhelm new visitors to Purgatory. A large portion of the patrons on any given night are either Kindred or ghouls. The Purgatory regulars tend to stay near the back of the club, occupying one or several tables, depending on the mood of the night.

The rear of the club consists of the haven of Bjorn Gannson (the local Beujah leader), an office and some anall, private meeting rooms. The heat and excitement that pervades the atmosphere often stirs the passions of the patrons, for good or ill: in consequence, fights have become a regular part of the night's activities:

Beyond The District

Washington is several miles square and about as tall, say, as the Washington Monument, give or take a little. It is surrounded on all four sides by reality

Arthur Hoppe

The Washington, DC. metro area extends far beyond the District. Most people who work inside the nation's capital have homes elsewhere. Additionally, many political and governmental functions overflow from the nation's

capital into the surrounding suburbs and satellite cities. Because the Prince and the other elders focus so much on trying to control the important sites inside Washington. neonates have plenty of opportunities to seize power or carve their own noches in the surrounding areas.

Virginia

Many visitors to D.C. fail to realize the number of groups or sites associated with Washington that are actually located in Virginia. The Pentagon, Arlington Cemetery, National Airport and Dulles Airport, and the U.S. Marine Corps Memorial are all in Virginia. Two Virginia cities border Washington, DC: Alexandria and Arlington. Al- exandria is the larger of the two, and in the first few years of the District's history, large sections of this city were consid cred to be part of Washington, DC. Virginia took this area back, however, and Alexandra grew to be its own city. separate from the capital.

Alexandria

Alexandria, Virginia was founded in 1749. Before the American Revolution, Alexandria was a busy tobacco port. trading primarily with ships from the East and West Indies Plantation owners came for miles to shop in Alexandria, and the city thrived. George Washington, and, years later. Robert E. Lee, grew up here. Today Alexandria is the headquarters for a number of companies, including the Gannet media conglomerate, the publishers of USA Today and other newspapers. Kindred interested in manipulating the media create Retainers in this company. Many high- tech firms have started in northern Virginus, keeping themselves close to the nation's capital in order to lobby for government grants and contracts.

Old Town Alexandria

Much of the colonial charm of Alexandria has been preserved. Homes and shops dating back to the 18th century line cobblestone streets in Old Town Alexandria, and clipper ships still dock at the waterfront. The atmosphere, festivals and art displayed in the Old Town, designed to draw tourists, also attract some elders, who experience a sense of nostalgia as they reminisce about nights long gone.

Arlington

Numerous bridges connect Arlington to Washington, DC, and the city's heights command impressive views of the capital. Arlington was part of D.C. until 1845, when Virginia reclaimed all of the land it had donated to the District. Like much of northern Virginia, Arlington is a residential area. The rich and powerful own some very beautiful homes here.

Chapter Three: Geography

Arlington National Cemetery

Here tests in honored glory an American soldier known but to God

\-inscription on the Tomb of the Unknowns

There are more than 200,000 graves at Arlington Na- tional Cemetery, and most Kindred avoid the site for fear that the area is some sort of gathering place for wraiths Giovanni are not welcome among the Washington Kindred primarily for fear that they might ramper with this or one of the other cemeteries in the area. Fifteen funerals a day go on at Arlington National and by the year 2020, the cemetery should be full

The most often-visited grave is that of John F. Kennedy, where the eternal flame continues to burn steadily. Jacqueline Kennedy is buried beside him, and two of their children rest nearby Robert Kennedy's grave, marked by a white cross, also lies close by. Much to the annoyance of the anarchs, Marcus Vitel enjoys spending time near the eternal flame and viewing the Kennedy graves. This ironic penchant of the Prince's, coupled with his audiences at the Lincoln Memorial, gives rise to caustic comments like "the dictator enjoys seeing another protector of democracy in his grave."

South of the Kennedy graves stands the Tomb of the Unknowns. In front of the white marble sarcophagus, sol- diers from the U.S. 3rd Infantry stand watch 24 hours a day, regardless of weather. The Prince forbids any interactions with these gunds, claiming that as an ex-soldier himself, he respects the tomb and what it symbolizes.

The large building at the front of the cemetery is the Netherlands Carillon. From the Carillon, one can look out across the Potomac and see the monuments, illuminated at night by floodlights.

The United States Marine Corps War Memorial

Uncommon valor was a common virtue -Admiral Nimitz's tribute to the men of Iwo Jima This bronze statue reproduces the raising of the Ameri can flag atop Mount Suribachi on Iwo Jima. The sculpture was taken from a photograph of the event taken by Joe Rosenthal. Each of the six soldiers is 32 feet high, and the

Discarded headstones

Every year, headstones at Arlington National Cem etery are replaced tomtintain the beauty of the grounds. Many of these discarded stones have been used across the city as parts of foundations, sidewalks, or even walls, especially in older buildings. At least once a year, a resident of the city discovers a gravestone somewhere on his property. Whether these displaced markers have any significance in the World of Darkness is left to the Storyteller. Many of them could be fetters for wraiths. or contain tass for a Euthanatos to rap, or perhaps their placement is all part of a large ritual....

flagpole is 60 feet long. The sculpture is reputedly danger ous at night, and the Prince and his minions like to meet with important visitors here before moving to a more secure location. Like most of the areas around Arlington Cemetery, the Lincoln Memorial, the Washington Monu ment, and the Capitol dome are easily visible from here.

The Pentagon

The world's second largest building stands just south east of Arlington National Cemetery. It does have five sides, cach one measuring 691 feet, which has caused the more mystically inclined to wonder what lies trapped within. The interior courtyard alone contains five acres of land. During the day more than 23,000 people work inside this massive structure. Seventeen and a half miles of corridors stretch on and on throughout the building. The Prince keeps the Pentagon as part of his personal domain, but even he would not know if a dozen other Kindred had havens inside.

Stephen Norton's Mansion

This mansion belongs to Dr. Stephen Norton, one of Washington's Malkavians. It sits atop a bluff overlooking the Potomac River. The interior of the mansion is both opulent and extravagant, and falls somewhere between the extremes of tasteful and gaudy. Dr. Norton purchased the house with monies that came from fencing stolen jewels. The mansion also has the most elaborate security system that Dr. Norton and his underworld contacts could devise. The location of the house is not public knowledge.

McLean

McLean is one of Washington's wealthiest suburbs and contains very little that interests tourists, which is how residents there prefer things. Several elders have homes in McLean, and the suburb is well guarded.

Mount Vernon

About half an hour south of the city along the Potomac sits Mount Vernon, the plantation home of George Washing ton. This mansion contains many of the First President's personal items and is surrounded by beautiful lawns with dogwood and plum trees. The main house has a red roof and a "rusticated look, achieved by painting white over sand, thus making the wood resemble stone. When ships pass the planta tion on the Potomac, they salute. The home remains undisturbed by Kindred, although the Prince has twice removed foolish vampires who decided to take up residence in the mansion, posing a threat to the Masquerade in their failure to realize how secure Mount Vernon's hidden high-tech security system is

Vienna

A large Virtual Adepts Chantry makes its home in Vienna, another wealthy suburb. These mages have created

38

D. C. by Night

a national online network, through many people have successfully been linked into computers Vienna is also close to George Mason University, one of Washington's continu- ously growing institutions.

Fairfax

Fairfax County inchides many of the suburbs around Washington, and it is clear that the city of Fairfax is growing steadily. Although few Kindred presently have influence in Fairfax, this is sure to change.

Reston

This planned community is close to Dulles Airport in Virginia, During the 1960s, tourists would visit Reston in order to see how a planned city is developed. Although Reston certainly has its own unique atmosphere, it shares many of the characteristics of the other Virginia suburbs This community is a Ventrue stronghold.

Tyson's Corner

Another booming suburb of Washington, Tyson's.Com neris home to many think tanks and government contractors Its two major malls contain a wide variety of shops and businesses.

Maryland

Two Maryland counties, Montgomery and Prince George's, border o

er on the District. Many of Maryland's sub-

urbs contain large cities, which could have their own princes if they weren't satellites of Washington and thus claimed by Prince Virel. The Maryland border serves both asa staging ground for Sabbat incursions and a rallying point for anatch movements. Nonetheless, most elders of Wash ington, DC maintain havers for themselves in Maryland as a precaution against trouble in the District or as a temporary escape from its constant intrigues and politics.

Bethesda

A residential and business area north of the city, Bethesda is known for both its Naval Hospital and the National Institute of Health. Wisconsin Avenue, which makes a straight shot south into Georgetown, connects Bethesda to Washington, DC Wisconsin also continues north into Rockville, Maryland's second most populous city, where it changes its name to Rockville Pike. The Bethesda Institute of Mental Health hides the work of the Malkavian Dr. Jeffrey Granger, who manipulates the entire facility. The red line of the Metro system has a stop in Bethesda.

Cheverly

A suburb on the northeastern DC. border, Cheverly sits next to the Baltimore-Washington Parkway, Sabbat packs have used Cheverly as a base to stage attacks against DC's Kindred population. Quick access to the parkway makes escape to Baltimore simple.

Meyland

Мерек

Camil

Cola

Washington

Bullen

The Maryland Suburbs of Washington, D.C.

Chapter Three: Geography

39

40

Chevy Chase

A few of the homes in this affluent suburb border parks which give access to sewer tunnels leading into Washington, D.C. Some of the younger Nosferatu like to travel into Chevy Chase through these tunnels, questing for excitement and adventure. Chevy Chase is not the place to find either.

College Park

This community surrounds the University of Mary- land, home to the Maryland Terrapins and a source of tremendous pride for many Maryland residents. The reputa tion of the University of Maryland as an academic institution continues to rise; many Kindred make use of its resources when in need of information. The college campus makes an excellent hunting ground.

Greenbelt

The home of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center, this Maryland suburb is located on the DC. metro system. The Technocracy controls Greenbelt, and most Kindred avoid the area. The suburb contains a Void Engineers Chantry. A lot of work involving the Hubble Space Tele- scope goes on in Greenbelt, as the Void Engineers do their best to map out the universe.

Hyattsville

Hyattsville, Maryland has been free of Kindred influ- ence for most of its existence. This small suburban.community is located about seven miles northeast of downtown Wash- ington, and currently, its hunting grounds are vacant.

Laurel

Located between Baltimore and Washington, Laurel bouts a well-known horse racing track. A small cluster of anarchs claim to control Laurel, but none of the Kindred of Washington believe this band will last more than a few months

New Carrolton

New Carrolton is located near Landover, Maryland, the site of the US Air Arena. Formerly the Capital Centre, this Arena hosts the Washington Bullets basketball and the Washington Capitals hockey games. The Arena is also one of DC's main concert venues New Carrolton's train sta non which has become a favorite resource for vampires who want to sneak into the nation's capital, as Union Station, inside Washington, is much too closely guarded.

Rockville

Rockville, the second largest city in Maryland, has be come a dilemma for the elders of the District. Connected to Washington, DC. by the red line Metro, Interstate 270, and

Rockville Pike, this young city's supernatural population and the problems which have arisen have raised a debate about whether Rockville should have its own prince. Vitel in't completely opposed to the idea; however, he has no trustwor thy candidates to take the position. In the meantime, Rockville remains under the Prince's domain, but is relatively uncon- trolled. A refuge for D.Cundesirables in Rockville is developing here and beginning to adopt anurch philosophies.

Silver Spring

This subuth, located on Georgia Avenue north of the District, has one of the largest populations of anarchs in the area. The Brujah anarch Velvet spends much of her time in Silver Spring, and the area has become the site of battles between various groups of anarchs. Prince Vitel plans to clean out Silver Spring shortly.

Suitland

This suburb lies to the southeast of Washington, DC. next to Andrews Air Force Base, by which the President and foreign leaders enter and leave the city. The main storage facilities for the National Archives are in Suitland.

Wheaton

Located on one end of the metro line, Wheaton is a solid part of Prince Vitel's domain. A few miles north of Silver Spring along Georgia Avenue, the town is home to a number of the D.C. elder Kindred's Retainers. Until the anarch movement in Silver Springstarted growing, Wheaton was a favorite hunting ground for the Prince to dole out to young, loyal vampires.

Nearby cities

As the East Coast megalopolis continues to grow, distances between cities shrink. During the last census, Washington and Baltimore were grouped together as part of the same metro area. Travel between these cities takes less than an hour by car, and in many ways, these domains are becoming more closely tied. Unfortunately for the Camarilla, this aids the spread of Sabbat and anarch influence. Once the flames of revolution catch in one city, they spread quickly to their neighbors.

The war for Baltimore will have a drastic effect on Washington, DC. and her other neighbors. If either the Camarilla triumphs or the anarchs manage to take the city, then the Prince will lose many of his assets, and the District will be less of a threat in the eyes of the Camarilla elders. A Justicar on his way to help establish a strong domain in Baltimore might even stop off to scrutinize the situation in the nation's capital. If the Sabbat triumphs, then an actual Sabbat threat to Vitel's power may arise, as opposed to the managed attacks that currently go on

D. C. by Night

Dun

Vans

The Virginia Suburbs of Washington.D.C.

Gorer

Maryland

M

Cof

Washington

Annapolis

Annapolis is the capital of Maryland, although for more than 300 years Baltimore has surpassed the city in both fame and industry. This picturesque Maryland city is set near the Chesapeake Bay, only an hour from DC by car. Many pre- Revolutionary Warbuildings still stand in Annapolis, lending the city an atmosphere of a quieter time. The most well- known feature here is the United States Naval Academy. The Kindred population of Annapolis remains Camarilla, although Sabbat packs threaten the city every few years.

Baltimore

The largest city near Washington, DC, Baltimore's suburbs overlap with the DC metro area, and it shares an airport (Baltimore-Washington International) with the nation's capital. The two cities also share a football and a haseball team, to few of the residents' delight. For most of its history, Baltimore was a much larger and more important city than its southem neighbor, but an time passes, the

Washington metro area continues to expand and now

threatens to overshadow Baltimore.

While Washington considers itself the stronghold of the Camarilla in the war with the Sabbat, Baltimore is the front line. Both Sabbat bishops and Camarilla "princes" claim to control Baltimore, thus there are bloody battles every night in the city. Prince Vitel would like to see the Camarilla retreat from Baltimore: the more Camarilla- Sabhat interaction that occurs in the region, the greater the danger to his own position.

Among mortals, Baltimore is known for its scenic Inner Harbor. At night, the fog comes off the Bay and shrouds the city in mist, enhancing the foreboding atmosphere of the war zones. A train called the MARC travels regularly between Baltimore and Washington.

Fredericksburg

Fifty miles south of Washington, DC. on Interstate 95 is Fredericksburg, Virginia. This small city was very important during the Revolutionary and Civil Wars and served as a Confederate bastion during the Civil War to protect Rich mond. Several major battlefields, such as Chancellorville and the Wilderness, are near Fredericksburg. A few vampires have havens there, but most find it dull and tawdry.

Chapter Three: Geography

LEIF JONES

1995

Chapter Four: The Damned

Where do bad folks go when they die They don't go to heaven where the angels fly. Go to a lake of fire and fry.. See them again on the Fourth of July.

\-Meat Puppets, "Lake of Fire"

With the recent demise of Prince Lodin of Chicago, Marcus Vitel is unquestionably the most powerful prince in the United States. Nonetheless, even he cannot handle all the powers and influences at work in the capital. Elders from around the globe spin their wels through their pawns in the embassies, corporations, lobbyist groups and anywhere else powerful mortals exert influence. The Kindred have no doubts as to the reasons for the inconsistencies in the policies of American leaders, in light of the number of meter manipulators casually seeking to achieve their own ends.

Most vampires know mortals of national importance, and a few elden, such as Helena Taylor, a Tremere lobbyist, rely on these relationships for protection. If something happens to the friend of a government official, whether the Sabbat, the Camarilla or anarchs are to blame, the Masquer ade itself is placed in danger. Kundred call this type of socializing, "keeping one's finger on the button".

On the other hand, the Kindred of Washington, D.C. are generally xenophobic, a sentiment attributed to a great degree to Vitel's penchant for fanning the flames of anti-

Sabbat paranoia. Unannounced visitors are almost always dragged before Prince Vitel or simply removed from the city. Even those D.C. Kindred who don't believe all of the Prince's claims about the Sabbat threat have a siege mental- iry. Hunters, including mages, government agencies, the Inquisition, and packs of werewolves, prowl the streets of Washington.

Additionally, the vampires of Washington play more intense political games than the Kindred in almost any other North American city. Nearly every vampire supports as many ghouls as possible. These with Dominate cleverly plant long-term suggestions in mortals so they can spread their influence in unseen ways. Perception is everything to the Kindred of Washington, and those who don't believe in prestation shouldn't bother entering Elysium Word of any breach of etiquette will spread swiftly, as communication between D.C.'s resident undead is remarkably good. Those who don't keep cellular phones, like the Brujah, carry beepers.

This listing of the city's Kindred is not complete, Washington's vampiric community remains in a constant

Chapter Four: The Damned

44

state of flux. Many of the city's elders, especially among the Toreador, met their Final Death in 1968 and the years following the victims of well-planned Sabbat strikes. A good number of the city's leading vampires would be dismissed as neonates elsewhere. Immigrants flow in to serve the inter- ests of their masters, and the Prince quierly exiles undesirables The vampires included here are some of the more important or longer-lasting Kindred within Marcus Vitel's domain.

Secrets

All of the vampires in this book have a rating in Secrets ranging from A to F like the United States grading scale. This gives a Storyteller a general idea of how much any particular vampire knows about the other Kindred, loca tions and intrigues in Washington, DC

A+ You know the truth about the Prince.

A The character knows all but the greatest of secrets. The character has dangerous knowledge which she could use to blackmail others or which may give someone reason to slay her. She even knows the locations of most havens.

A The character knows all of the main secrets of the city. He can see through many intrigues and keep an accurate scorecard of alliances. If a character has this level of Knowledge, it is easy for him to get into situations well over his head.

B+ A vampire with this level of Secrets knows which vampires manipulate which groups and have influence in

which agencies. A character with this level of Knowledge knows enough to play games in society, but he also knows enough to realize that he has just hit the tip of iceberg.

BA Kindred with this level of Secrets has a bit of knowledge that could surprise many vampires, but most of them concem her clan or associates. She manages to keep abreast of shifting alliances and who favors whom.

B. This character knows a great deal about alliances, but he has difficulties keeping track of sudden shifts. He also may not know some of the Kindred who keep themselves out of the "public" eye.

C+ This character has just enough Knowledge to keep from falling into dangerous prestation traps. He's not quite good enough to play the games of power except as a

minor piece.

C This character knows all the information which can be gleaned from casual conversation, and she can recognize all of the major elders of the city.

C. A vampire with this level of Knowledge knows all the names of the powerful players, but he doesn't understand the games or have the ability to put faces with the names. Most less important Kindred are unknown to the character.

level of secrets. She knows who the Prince of Washington D The faux pas is a way of life for a character with this

is, but she would be hard-pressed to identify other elders.

Price, but he knows little else about the city.

F The character may have been introduced to the

D. C. by Night

TYSON

BRUJAH

The Brujah have the potential to wield tremendous influence over events in Washington, DC, yet they refuse to organize as a clan to exert their power. In certain sections of the city, especially Northeast, the Brujah have hunting grounds where almost anything goes. The Prince actually promotes violence and havoc in these areas in order to maintain feeding grounds where the possibility of violating the Masquerade is very slight. A few younger Brujah fre- quent the nicet clubs of Georgetown, and the Bujah-Toreador influence in Adams-Morgan has com bined with the vibrancy of young residents to create an exciting environment.

Bjorn Garinson

Bjom remembers his flight from Norway, with Ventrue and Toreador ghouls hard on his heels. He remembers the betties which destroyed the Brujah Vikings and their Gangrel allies, and turned Scandinavia over to the Blue Bloods. Most of all he remembers the desperate hunger that assailed him as he and his crew of hand-picked warriors sailed for the Vineland of legend, intent only on survival. He was the sole aurvivor, for his shield mates died to slate his desperate thirst.

His Viking longship reached land just in time for Bjom to plunge into the forest and dig himself a grave. There he lay in torpor, waiting for any signs of civilization.

He woke centuries later, his first contact with the outside world the space of a settler slamming into his ribs. Bjom tore through the startled homesteader and his family before he had time to determine who they were. He wan dered for nearly a week before he found more people.

The population he discovered were nor Vikings but English, French and Dutch colonists. He could not speak their language, and many of the colonists treated the giant warrior as a monster of the woods. Over the years, he kept moving across the country, sometimes stopping in one place for a few decades at a time. Slowly, he learned English. Time and bitter loneliness has changed Bjorn, and often times, he has trouble caring about anything.

Biom's only remaining hope is that someday the Brujah will ally to throw off the Camarilla's yoke. He remembers how the clan's internal strife contributed to their defeat in Scandinavia long ago, and will not willingly come into conflict with the other clans until his own can unite. He has come to D.C. hoping to create a Brujah force in the very heart of the Camarilla empire. His lack of success, however, now leads him to despair of ever gaining his revenge. He

could claim a seat on the D.C. primogen should he so desire, but he fears the conflict that would being

Bjorn now loses himself in hedonistic excess at his club, Purgatory, in Adams-Morgan. Though he rarely offers his friendship, when he does choose a friend, his loyalty knows few hounds. Bjorn leads the Brujah in the city by default. although many of the younger and more anarchistic of the clan have grown tired of waiting for the Viking to lead a revolution against the Prince, and now look to Velvet

For his part, Bjorn recognises the sheer power and evil burning inside Marcus Vitel. The Prince scares him. Bjorn has begun to doubt that Vitel is a Ventrue or even a Kindred Still, he knows that one day, Ragnarok will come. An ax in the back room of Purgatory has Vitel's name on it. Sire: Dark Raven

Nature: Judge Demeanor: Bon Vivant Generation: 6th Embrace: A.D. 621 Apparent Age: 32

Physical: Strength 6, Dexterity 5, Stamina 7 Social: Charisma 5. Manipulation 3, Appearance 3 Mental: Perception 4. Intelligence 3. Wits 5 Talents: Alertness 4. Athletics 5, Brusel 6, Dodige 2. Empu thy I, Intimidation 4, Leadership 3, Streetwise 2

Chapter Four: The Damned

Skills: Animal Ken 2. Boat Handling 4, Drive 3, Etiquette 2, Firearms 2, Melee 6, Stealth 1, Survival 4

Knowledges: Linguistics 3, Medicine 1, Occult 2, Politics I Disciplinest Animalism 2, Auspex 4, Celerity 4, Fortitude 3, Obfuscate 1, Potence 5, Presence 3, Protean 2

Backgrounds: Allies 3, Contacts 4, Influence 1, Resources 3. Retainers 5

3

Virtues: Conscience 4. Self-Control 5. Courage 5 Humanity: Willpower: 8

Images Bjorn is a giant of a man, about 6'6" tall and broad- shouldered. He has long red hair and a beard and mustache. Bjorn likes to wear leather jackets and generally dresses like a biket, often covering various parts of his body with tattoos. Occasionally he carries a battle ax on his belt.

Roleplaying Hints: It would be easy to play Bjom as stereotypical Viking-loud, boisterous and given to roar ing-but there is more to him than this. He has suffered the wrath of his Kindred, and is unwilling to endure it again Party to avoid dealing with reality, but don't take crap from anyone except the Prince. Never underestimate an oppo nent, and say the bloody hell away from political situations. Havent Purgatory

Secrets: B

Influence: While he ostensibly leads the city's Brujah, in reality Biom has influence only over Purgatory and the Purgatory Crew. Among mortals he has the most power over the police stationed near Purgatory, having Blood Bound the precinct commander.

Philip Freeman

Philip grew up on the streets of Southeast D.C. His earliest memory is of the rioting that followed the death of Martin Luther King, Jr. After this, a young Philip watched his neighborhood slowly begin to decay, his older brother get shot in a random drive-by and his family plunge deeper und deeper into the well of poverty. The frustration and helplessness of his early years was almost too much. Philip was smart enough to get into college, but he just didn't have the scholarship money, and he was needed to help out at home when his father was injured at the construction site where he worked.

Finally, Philip saw no other choice. He had to start selling drugs. It was the only way for him to make things work. He wasn't going to push anything had, just some grass or pills. Philip didn't want to kill anyone, he just needed to make some money, and then he'd quit selling the stuff and that'd be the end of it. When crack got into the city, he didn't want to believe that he had partly been responsible for spreading the deadly, addictive substance. All those poor people so desperate for another rock disgusted him. He tried to tell himself they would have messed themselves up some other way if he hadn't been around

Then his little sister got into a bunch of his pills. Just some tranqs and uppers. She died. Just like that.

Something inside Philip snapped. He got his gun, loaded it up and went after his sappher. In a furious frenzy he shot up the place, but he damn guy just wouldn't die. As Philip sprayed him with his AK, he returned a continuous barrage of fire, not stopping until he had shor Philip about a dozen times with his .357.

Somehow, Philip staggered back out into the streets, blood pouring from multiple wounds all over his body. A figure grabbed him from the shadows. "Boy," whispered a sultry voice, "you've got balls of steel, torporing a Setite like that." She kissed him, and he died.

Now Philip's a Brujah. He moves from place to place, taking apartments in the housing projects when he can find them or else convincing people to put up with him for a day or two. He knows what kind of shit's going on in Northeast, and he does whatever he can to combat it. Recently, he stole a flamethrower from one of the many hidden armories around DC. and embarked upon a crusade to destroy abandoned drug houses. It's only a matter of time before Philip torches the wrong house.

He often carries an AK-47, and few are stupid enough to mess with him. His humanity keeps falling as the body count rises, but Philip's willing to sacrifice his soul to stop this stuff. He doesn't care if the kid is just holding a bag or if someone's trying it for the first time. It's war Sire: Unknown

Nature: Fanatic Demeanor: Loner Generation: 11th Embrace: 1984 Apparent Age: 22

Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, Stamina 3

46

D. C. by Night

Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 3, Appearance 3 Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 3. Wits 4

Talents: Acting 2, Alertness 3. Athletics 3, Brawl 4, Dodge 3, Empathy 2. Intimidations 3, Leadership 2, Streetwise 5. Subterfuge 4

Skills: Drive 3, Firearms 3, Melee 3. Security 2. Stealth 3 Knowledges: Bureaucracy 1, Investigation 3, Law 1, Lin- gitics 2, Medicine 1, Politics 2

Disciplines: Celerity 3, Potence 2, Presence 3

Backgrounds: Allies 3, Contacts 2, Retainers 1 Virtues Concionice 5, Self-Control 4, Courage S Humanity: 3

Willpower: 9

Image: Philip's the type of guy who doesn't have to look hard for women. He's dark skinned, clean shaven, and good looking, and his glasses give him the look of an intellectual. With a simple clothes change, Philip can blend in with alnost any surrounding, whether it be the streets of South- cost or the most expensive nightclubs in Georgetown. Roleplaying Hints: You see pain everywhere. You believe man's got to take action and keep his own counsel. Your involvement with the drug scene only brought more pain and loss into your life. You scom the filthy rich and spend your time working to clean up the bleaker areas of D.C. You pay lip service to the Man, but all you really want from the Prince is some backup in case you uncover a nest of serpents Haven: Mobile

Secrets: B+ Influence: None.

Velvet

Life on the streets was never easy, but there's one good thing about Washington- the Congressmen tip well. Velvet used to be a lady of the night. Her greatest moment of glory was managing to get into an Inaugural Ball with a somewhat drunk representative. She always tried to stay dean and keep herself free of drugs and disease-a difficult task in this day and age. But one night her lifestyle caught up with her.

She recalls the multiple tapes in graphic detail, includ ing the way they carved their names into her thighs and breasts before they alis her throat. And as she choked on her own blood, she glimpsed the whirlwind of anger and passion that smashed through her attackers. Bitterly she thought that Mr. Hero deserved a free one... then everything went black. Velvet thought it was over.

When she woke up, the man stood over her, tears of blood streaking his brown cheeks. "I'm sorry... we need You" Suddenly, Velvet's life became much more involved.

Velvet didn't stay a childe for long. She knew what she wanted and how to get it. She even considered trying to seduce the Prince, but he set off far too many warning signals. Furthermore, Velvet couldn't stand anyone trying

to tell her what todo, nor could she tolerate someone willing to sit by is the heart of the city burned, just for the sake of his precious Masquerade. Velvet has started working on an anarch movement. She believes that if the she and the city are going to last, then Vitel has to go. She never wants to control be controlled by anyone again. Sire: Philip Freeman

Nature: Survivor Demeanor: Bon Vivant Generation: 11th

Embrace: 1986

Apparent Age: 20s

Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 4, Stamina 4 Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 3, Appearance 4 Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 5, Was 3

Talents: Acting 3. Alertness 2. Brawl 3, Dodge 1, Empathy 3, Streetwise 3, Subterfuge 4

Skills: Drive 2. Etiquette 3, Firearms 3, Melee 2, Stealth 4 Knowledges: Law 1. Linguistics 1. Medicine 1. Occult 2 Disciplines: Celerity 1. Potence 1, Presence 3, Obfuscate 1 Backgrounds: Contacts 3, Resources 2, Mentor 1 Virtues: Conscience 3. Self-Control 5, Counge 3 Humanity: 6

Willpower: 7

Image: Velvet is a very pale African-American wonun, 5'10" tall and remarkably fn: She has long, curly, dark hair and blackeyes. Her clothes vary with her environment, but she looks good in or out of anything in her wardrobe. Roleplaying Hints: You are crafty and careful, and never forget names or faces. You enjoy flirting and often use your body to get your way, although you find men who fall in love with you bothersome. Currently, you're scouring our potential progeny: for some reason, Prince Vitel gave you permission to

Chapter Four: The Damned

create a new Brajah. Perhaps he suspects that you're behind the anarch movement and he wants you to be indebted to him. Too bad, because you don't play prestation games unless you

want to

Haven: House on 16th Street. Secrets: C-

Influence: Some among anarchs. Velvet is also trying to develop contacts in the city and national government- her old ones just got voted out of office.

Emilio Gonzalez

You were the man in your neighborhood. The other guys looked up to you, the ladies wanted you, and no one, but no one, was foolish enough to mess with you. You sold the drugs, although you personally avoided the stuff. An occa sional drink or two was all you needed.

Then, there was a little problem with that stupid chick Consuela, who didn't understand that having a kid would slow you down. You remember flying into a that night

and getting smashed our of your mind. You wanted to prove your manhood and found a bitch willing to let you. The only problem was that when it came time to do the wild thing, she was sucking your life curta your throat. The next veng you woke up with an upside-down Anarchy symbol drawn on your mirror with your own blood, and note: "Go to Purgatory." You did and Bjorn Garinson explained every

thing to you in those deep tones of his, except who the fuck your sire was....

Well, before you were enough of a man. Now you're a

whole lot more. Sire: Velvet Nature: Bravo Demeanor: Bravo Generation: 12th Embrace: 1991 Apparent Age: 22

Physical: Strength 3. Dexterity 3. Stamina 3 Social: Charisma 2, Manipulation, Appearance 4 Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 2, Wits 3

Talents Acting 2, Alertness 1. Brawl 3, Dodge 2. Streetwise 4. Subterfuge 2

Skills: Drive 3, Firearms 2, Melee 3, Repair 2, Stealth 2 Knowledges: Law 2, Linguistics 1

Disciplines: Celerity, Potence 1, Presence 1 Backgrounds: Allies 2, Contacts 1. Resources 1 Virtues: Conscience 3. Self-Control 5, Courage 3 Humanity: 6

Willpower: 7

Imager Emilio's a good-looking Hispanic guy who seems to live on the back of a motorcycle (usually one missing from a local dealer. He wears expensive leather jackets. He's about 5'8" but pretendwo be taller, and swaggers a bit when he walks.

Roleplaying Hints: You know you're great, but you've always been persecured. No one listens to you. You hate the Prince and everything he stands for., and you aim to cause as mochtrouble as possible without going over the line. The times going to come when old man Marcus realizes that the Broth have a real man among them. And everybody who wants to avoid trouble had better realize it sooner.

Haven: Basement of an old abandoned house near Silver Spring

Secrets: C

Influence: Almost none.

D. C. by Night

Gangrel

Clan Gangrel has the least involvement in the politics of Washington, DC. They see Washington as a major focal point for too many supernatural entities. Of all the clans, the Gangrel are the most puzzling to Marcus Vitel and Peter Dorfman. No one knows exactly how the Gangrel might react to a situation, and no one knows what the limits this dan are

Art Morgan

As Act tells it, he was born a long time ago in a land that uses the leek as its symbol, and he was taught to respect mthority and seek out justice. His life and death have been one long strange trip. He never put down roots, but he has made many friends over the course of a long lifetime.

Art Morgan is connected to the mortal world through his job with Deviant magazine, a small rag that reports on dug worshippers, ritual skin grafting, and the dangers of gras seed. This tabloid-style periodical worships their best reporter and will finance him to travel anywhere, as long as the result is a good story.

Art Morgan happens to be one of the few beings in the World of Darkness who is welcomed in almost any circle. The anarchs believe that he's a fellow spirit. A faction of Gangrel lobby for Morgan to become Justicar Gangrel. Even the Garou respect him he is one of the only vampires to have visited the Sept of the Awakening Men in Black have followed Art around, and more than a few mages-hoth Technocracy and Tradition-consider Morgan to be a friend.

Art Morgan is an enigma, a deluded elder who believes he can be a Justicar with his own guard of Archons, whom he refuses to Blood Bond. This Cainite is the best friend that a young vampire can make in Washington, DC. Some say that Arr's soul was reborn during the 1960s, because despite his age, he seems rather in touch with the modern world, or at least that particular era. Art Morgan gives a great deal of credit to Dr. Timothy Leary's consciousness-expanding philosophy

Sires Rhun of Tintagel

Nature: Cavalier

Demeanor: Cavalier

Generation: 7th

Embrace: 550 A.D.

Apparent Age: 30

Physical: Strength 5, Dexterity 4. Stamina 6 Social: Charisma 5, Manipulation 4. Appearance 3

Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 3, Wits 5

Talents: Acting 5, Alertness 4. Athletics 4. Brawl 4, Dodge 3, Empathy 5, Intimidation 3, Leadership 2, Streetwise 3, Subterfuge 4

Skills: Animal Ken 5. Drive 2. Eriquette 2, Melee 6, Music 3, Repair 2, Stealth 3, Survival 4

Knowledges: Bureaucracy 1, Computer 2, Finance 1, Investi gation 4, Law 4, Linguistics 5, Occult 5, Politics 4, Science 1 Disciplines: Auspex 3, Animalism 6, Celerity 3, Dominate 3. Fortitude 5, Obfuscate 3. Potence 4, Presence 1, Protean 5 Backgrounds: Allies 5, Contacts 5, Influence 2, Resources 2 Virtues: Conscience 5, Self-Control 5, Courage 5 Humanity: 8

Willpower: 10

Image: Art has a scraggly look: his long blond hair, beard, and mustache all are desperately in need of trimming. His yellow eyes are haunting, wolflike. He's fond of claiming that he sees the world only in black and white. Morgan wears a black wool trench coat, tie-dyed T-shirts, ripped blue jeans, dirty boots, and Lennon glasses everywhere he goes. Beneath his clothes, the vampire's body is coveted with thick brown fur, which, along with his long whiskers, he shaves constantly. His van, a pale green magic bus, can be heard from anywhere in the near vicinity.

Roleplaying Hints: Most people should not realize just how deranged you are. Be unthinkably mellow. Act like a dude back from a recent Grateful Dead concert. Let everyone say

Chapter Four: The Damned

50

their piece and respect the hell out of other people. See to it that everybody in the world underestimates you. There's no reason for others to realize that you are the way you are because you can't focus on any one thing for more than a few seconds, Haven: Mobile

Secrets: A

Influence: Art Morgan has pull with the Bone Gnawers of Washington, DC, and all of Clan Gangrel. Additionally, people are quick to confide in him, which means that he knows far more than he thinks he does. Finally, he has friends in a number of governmental agencies, including the EPA and the Department of the Interior.

Joseph Fuller

Joseph was a minor occultist with an avid interest in Egyptian mythology. Indeed, he traveled from the midwest to Washington, DC, in order to make use of its occult libraries.

Finding a number of like-minded individuals, Joseph established a cult of pseudo-Egyptian god worshippers, with himself at the head as pharach and high priest. He attracted a lot of the young, the jaded, and the wealthy among Washington's residents. Drugs and promises of enlighten ment kept his cultists loyal. Group sex, ritual scarring and ritual sacrifice became part of the cult's sacrament.

Adrienne Connor, a wandering Gangrel, was passing through Washington, DC when she stumbled across the cult. She was intrigued, and after a time, she became Joseph's lover. During a particularly exciting private ritual, the Beast overcame Adrienne and she frenzied, tearing Joseph's throat open. When she calmed down, she was wracked with guilt, and, unwilling to let Joseph expire, she Embraced him. When she realized fully the implications of what she had done, Adrienne fled the city in order to avoid the Blood Hunt, leaving Joseph alone with his unlife. After

a short time, other members of clan Gangrel discovered him, and Prince Vitel tentatively accepted the childe.

Setites contacted Joseph after he entered Kindred society, enticing him with the story of their clan and its ancient connection to Set Joseph found much more in common with the Setites than with Clan Gangrel, and he fears that either Art Morgan or Marcus Vitel will discover his contacts with the Setite clan. He realizes that he's not a typical Gangrel, and he's started to dream about establish- ing his own bloodline. He would like to manipulate his childe. Tabitha Prester, to gain more influence in the city. but Art Morgan has too much of a hold over her. Sire: Adrienne Connor Nature: Director Demeanor: Deviant

Generation: 11th Embrace: 1984

Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 2, Stamina 3 Apparent Age: 27

Social: Charisma 3, Manipulation 4, Appearance 4 Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 3, Wits 3 Talents: Acting 2, Empathy 2, Intimidation 2, Leadership 3, Subterfuge 4

Skills: Animal Ken 3, Drive 1, Melee 1, Music 1, Repair 2, Stealth 1, Survival 3

Knowledges: Investigation 1. Linguistics 2. Medicine 2, Occult 3

Disciplines: Animalism 2, Fortitude 2, Protean 2, Presence I Serpentis

Backgrounds: Allies 1, Herd 5, Influence 1, Resources 3, Retainers 2

Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 4, Courage 4 Humanity: 4

Willpower: 6

Image: Joseph is tall and lanky. He is tan skinned and has curly brown hair which reaches past his shoulders. He likes to show off his body, especially his chest, and usually wears black silk robes. He has red welts on his arms and back from where he plucks feathers to hide his animal features.

Roleplaying Hints: You hare confrontations. You wish the world would just shut up and pay homage to you. The Followers of Set fascinate you, especially their mysterious leader, though you don't know her name, she walks in your dreams. You are friendly to others, but, even so, you choose your words carefully.

Haven: An apartment near the Farragut North metro station, close to George Washington University. Secrets: C

Influence: Joseph has a cult of 20 to 30 followers, many of whom would do almost anything for him. While few of his followers have much power, a number are from influential and wealthy families.

D. C. by Night

Tabitha Prester

Tabitha was abused as a child, and the emotional scars of her early life are woven through the poetry she writes. Her darkly suicidal verse strikes a chord with others who have suffered as she has, and those who feel alienated from the world. For most of her life, Tabitha isolated herself and spent her days mened in the philosophy and theology upon which she draws to create her poetry. Her human existence was nearly intolerable. But all this came to attend when she was Embraced.

Terrified by her new condition and fearful of her crazy sire who sought to bring her into his cult, she found a sympathetic friend in Art Morgan. Art taught her about the Traditions and the system of Kindred society. Tabitha has become one of Art's "Archons." She is quite protective of her friend and mentor. Though Tabitha is still too vulner able to admit it, and neither chooses to recognize the fact. Tabitha is in love with Art.

Art has helped Tabitha to realize the degree to which she had squandered her life. Before her death, and before she met Morgan, she had never made the effort to discover all that life could offer. Since her Embrace, Tabitha has found new faith and reconciled herself with God.

The vampire is currently researching Kindred history, specifically the history of her own clan and how each of the different clans evolved. One of the few benefits to being Blood Bound to the Prince is the easy access she has to his library, which contains the ancient Latin parchments upon which much Kindred Lore has been recorded. Prince Vitel enjoys conversing in his long-dead native tongue, and the two often discuss. Kindred and mortal history in Latin.

Tabitha is good friends with Chas Voyager, the local head of the Toreador, and Bjorn Garinson, head of the Brujah. She also feels a certain kinship with Washington's Nosferatu population. She serves as protector to Melisss, giving her clothes, food for her cats and a place to stay whenever Melissa needs it. Tabitha remembers her own childhood, and wants to be sure thar Melissa is taken care of. Her best friends, besides Art, are Art's other "Archons": Pieter van Dorn and Dr. Stephen Norton.

Sire: Joe Fuller

Nature: Architect

Demeanor: Survivor

Generation: 12th

Embrace: 1988

Apparent Age: 25

Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, Stamina 4 Social: Charisma 3, Manipulation 1. Appearance 2 Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 5, Wits 3 Talents: Acting 2. Alertness 1. Athletics 1 Brawl 3, Dodge 1, Empathy 4, Intimidation 1, Leadership, Streetwise 1, Sub terfuge 2

WKINGS

Knowledges: Bureaucracy, Computer 1. Finance, Investig tion, Law, Linguistics 3, Occult 4. History 4. Philosophy 3. Theology 5

Disciplines: Animalism 1, Fortitude 2, Potence 1, Protean Backgrounds: Fame 3, Mentor 3, Resources 2, Status 3 Virtues: Conscience 4, Self-Control 5. Courage 4 Humanity: 9

Willpower: 10

Image: Tabitha is an average-looking woman, 5'8", with long red hair and bright blue eyes. She is usually found wearing black jeans, black boots, a T-shirt or sweater, and a black leather jacket, given to her by Bjorn Garinson. Roleplaying Hints: Smile and be friendly. Be forgiving and understanding of others' problems. Demonstrate courage and loyalty to your friends. You do not realize just how tangled your web of allegiances has become, and if your "friends" start pulling in different directions, there is no telling how you will react. Your priorities are: your Frince's commands (though you are well aware that this is not by choice), Art, your friends, and then yourself. Do everything possible to avoid going into frenty.

Haven: A townhouse in Maryland near the DC. border. Secrets: B

Influences Everyone listens to Tabitha, but the elders realize that she is getting herself into an awkward position.

Melissa

Melissa knows that she's a little girl who has lived in Washington, DC. all of her life. She knows that it's the nation's capital, and she'll be glad to tell you that. Melissa's a good girl. The Prince looks out for her, and so does her

Skills: Animal Ken 2, Drive 2, Firearms 1, Melee 1. Music 2, mommy, Tabitha Prester, though Melissa knows that Tabitha

Repair 2, Security 1, Stealth 1, Survival 3

is not her real mommy. One day, she hopes that one day

Chapter Four: The Damned

51

Uncle Art and Tabitha will fall in love and get married. Then she can be their little girl.

Melissa doesn't remember much of her life before she was a vampire. All she knows is that one day a stranger came to visit. Then, she woke up in the middle of the night, and the house was on fire and the stranger was fighting with a bunch of men. The stranger heat them all up, but then he attacked Melissa. Bad stranger. After that he hit her and carried her outside. Melissa doesn't know what happened to mommy and daddy. She thinks they're dead. The stranger made Melissa into a vampire, just like he was. Then, he left her all alone.

Melissa cried for a long time. No one was around to love her, because this was before Tabitha came to the city. Then Melissa met the first of her kitties. Her kitties came when she called and they bunched up on her and covered her during the day. Melissa loves her kitties, especially Dump- ling, because he's the biggest and most cuddly, although he does meow a little funny.

After the Prince, Mr. Vitel, found her, she was happy. If only Art and Tabitha would stop being so serious and fall in love, then Melissa and her kitties would have a family. Sire: Richard Dah\!

Nature: Child

Demeanor: Child

Generation: 10th

Embrace: 1914

Apparent Age: 7

Physical: Strength 1, Dexterity 3, Stamina 4 Social: Charisma 4. Manipulation 4, Appearance 3 Mentalt Perception 3, Intelligence, Wits 2 Talents: Acting 3. Alertness 2, Athletics 1. Brawl 1, Dodge 3. Empathy 3, Streetwise 1, Subterfuge 5

Skills: Animal Ken 5, Melce 1. Stealth 3. Survival 2 Knowledgest Occult \!

Disciplines: Animalism 5, Forrirode 4, Protean 3 Backgrounds: Contacts 2 Herd 5. Mentor 2 Virtuest Conscience 5, Self-Control 4. Courage Humanity: 8

Willpower: 6

curls and blue eyes. She wears nice clothes, provided for her Image: Melissa is a rather dirty-looking little girl with blond

by Art and his "Archons". She almost always has a kitty in her arms. Melissa has short whiskers which stick out from her cheeks and a small cat tail, which she tries to hide under long dresses.

Roleplaying Hints: You enjoy hiding under tables and talking with your kitties. Most people don't understand you, because they're too grown up. You like Art, Tabitha, and the Malkavians because they don't act so grown up. You would like the Nosferatu, except they're too disgusting looking You enjoy playing games with people, and making people who think they're toimportant looksilly, but you're careful not to anger the wrong vatopines.

Haven: You follow Tabitha around, but you usually live in the basement of a hope in Alexandria Secrets: C+

Influence: Melissa uses her cuteness and childish manner- isms to get anything she can our of people.

52

D. C. by Night

MalkAvian

As might be expected, clan Malkavian is the big x- factor in Washington, DC. Though none of the other clans give the Malkavians much consideration in the grand scheme of things, they are possibly the most dangerous clan in Washington. Scott Levin, its clan leader, operates as effectively on the information super- highway as he does in the Malkavian Madness Network. Then there's Dr. Stephen Norton, the world's greatest jewel thief-at least according to his own modest self- estimation. Dr. Jeffrey Granger controls the Bethesda Institute of Mental Health, an asylum filled with ex- CIA agents and criminals. Razor manages to openly defy all efforts to apprehend him in either Baltimore or D. C. If the Malkavians had any type of clan structure, they would be a threat to both the Ventrue and Tremere, but their strength may come from not having any structure. With the Malkavians, nothing is certain.

Scott Levin

One of the greatest enigmas in Washington, DC. is Scott Levin, leader of clan Malkavian. This handi- capped elder heads a clan that appears to be unaware of his existence. No one is certain of Scott Levin's origins, but the most common theory is that he was an inventor during the late 1800s, who had the misfortune to run afoul of the wrong type of creature. What is known is that he has been the senior Malkavian in D.C. since the turn of the century.

Scott lives in his haven near Chevy Chase, and he spends most of his time alone, with only his computer to keep him company. His neighbors assume that he is simply a reclusive professor with some connection to the local universities. His only regular visitor is Malcolm Dobbs, a gifted teenager undergoing an extended "in- ternship" as Scott's ghoul.

Scott never carries a conversation without losing his train of thought in the middle of a sentence. He often hears voices and sees things that others don't. Social interaction with Scott requires extreme patience. Most Kindred humor him and many of the other elders have pity for him. Little do they realize how dangerous he can potentially be

Computers are Scott Levin's world. When he is working on his computer, he becomes alarmingly intel- ligent and lucid. Most users who meet him on-line ure intimidated after the first few moments of an exchange. Levin has six phone lines in his house, all of which connect to difference on-line services and BBS's, in- cluding the CIA's boards. His screen name differs depending on the month, but usually it's a variant of Golconda. Levin designs viruses, regularly cracks pass- words and keeps tabs on dozens of computer systems. He also exchanges e-mail with Drs. Norton and Granger each night.

Sire: Dr. Harry Hirsch Nature: Plotter Demeanor: Confidant Generation: 9th

Embrace: 1881

Apparent Age: 34

Physical: Strength 1, Dexterity 1, Stamina 5

Social: Charisma 5, Manipulation 2, Appearance 2 Mental: Perception 4. Intelligence 4, Wits 4

Talents: Acting 5, Alertness 2, Empathy 3, Leadership 2, Subterfuge 3

Skills: Drive 1, Etiquette 1, Firearms 1, Repair 5, Security 4.

Stealth 4

Knowledges: Bureaucracy 3, Computer 4, Finance 2. Investi gation 4, Law 2, Linguistics 1, Medicine 3, Occult 3, Politics 3, Science 5

Disciplinest Auspex 5, Dominate 4, Fortitude 1, Obfuscate 4

Backgrounds: Contacts 5, Influence 4, Retainers 2, Status 4 Virtues: Conscience 5, Self-Control 5, Courage 4

Chapter Four: The Damned

53

Humanity: 7 Willpower: 8

Image: Scott exerts himself as little as possible. He wears only one color: all of his clothes are subtle shades of gray. He has straight, shoulder-length dirty-blond hair which almost never stays in place. When he has to get up, he stands about 5'9". Though his body is emaciated, his pale blue eyes stand out strikingly

Roleplaying Hints: You always wear a friendly smile. In your world, it seems that strange things are perpetually going on, and there are dozens of matters requiring your attention. You can't keep your mind from roving. Only one thing thinks near your speed-your computer. It still doesn't process fast enough, but it works better than people do. Unlife amuses you, as do the minor politics of the players in Washington. If only they knew how to play the real games. Someday you'll show them. Haven: A house near Chevy Chase.

Secrets: A

Influence: Levin virtually controls the computer net- works of Washington, DC. He can access information on just about any subject. He has contacts within almost every DC. and national agency.

Cassie (Olivia Debray)

Cassie is one of the few Malkavians considered decent company in Elysium. A flapper-wannabe of the 20s named Olivia Debray, she has always had a gift for guessing the future. The upper-crust male friends who listened to her predictions were well protected when the stock market crashed. A few even profited. Her ability to foretell future events was an oft-discussed subject among her friends, and eventually word got to Scott Levin, who became fascinated by the young woman. Determining that her abilities might be extremely useful, Scott Em- braced Olivia and renamed her Cassandra, which she shortened to Cassie

Cassie adjusted well to unlife, and after she over- came her initial shock, she worked her way into the good graces of Prince Marissa. About the time that Marcus Vitel first appeared, Cassandra began to have daymares about a dark lord of the Sabbar destroying Washington, D.C. Her warnings to Marissa pushed the Prince into allying herself more closely with the powerful new elder.

After Marissa fell. Cassic began to suspect that there was more to Vitel than she had initially believed. The idea that she may have been responsible for the Final Death of her beloved Prince was just too much for her to handle, and her sense of identity shattered. Now she has three distinct major, and at least 10 minor, personalities, three of whom are male.

Her first major personality is that of Cassic, Cassie is a little girl who is able to see the future. She's very kind and caring. She loves to skip and play hide and seek.

D. C. by Night

She's mer Melissa of Clan Gangrel and enjoys playing with her. Cassie wants kitties of her own and a big dog that can chase Melissa's kitties when Cassie gets mad at her.

Her second personality calls herself Cassandra. She's an elder vampire, a member of the primogen and a powerful player in the city's political games. Cassandra believes that she is the real power behind Clan Malkavian. This personality is very strong willed, and she plays the political games well. She likes to wear flowing expensive dresses and enjoys flirting with both the Prince and the Pontifex. Cassandra seems so power- ful that most of the harpies of Elysium suspect that her transformation into Cassie is only an act, especially since Cassandra remembers what happens to Cassie, but Cassie doesn't remember what happens to Cassandra Cassandra almost always surfaces if a powerful vampire appears on the scene

Her third personality is Olivia, a young woman from the 1920s who's trapped in a nightmare. Olivia doesn't believe that she's a vampire. She thinks that Cassandra dominates her. Olivia has tried to break the Masquerade and has attempted to kill Cassandra. This is a pathetic character who desperately wants release from the hot- rors of unlife, but who ultimately lacks the courage to end it all herself. Olivia takes over whenever Cassandra or Cassic fall a Willpower check of any sort.

All of her personalities experience visions of the future. When this happens, Cassie's eyes glaze over and she begins to shake. The visions are unother Derange ment and have no bearing on reality; however, many Kindred in D.C. believe that they have relevance.

Sire: Scott Levin

Razor had been a regular bureaucrat named Gary

Nature: Varies, but usually Child (Cassie), Plotter Stapleton. He was a normal guy with a normal life, or

(Cassandra), or Martyr (Olivia)

Demeanor: Varies

Generation: 10th

Embrace: 1929

Apparent Age: 20

Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 2, Stamina 3

Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 3, Appearance 3 Mental: Perception 5, Intelligence 3, Wits 3

about as close as anyone can get to it. One afternoon his car broke down on the capital beltway, and a passing motorist offered to drive Gary to the nearest gas station. Gary accepted. Unbeknownst to him, his benefactor. Roll Trusk, was a Malkavian vampire with a homicidal Derangement.

Rolf Trask missed a few exits, and then turned onto a road that the bureaucrat didn't recognize. Though Gary protested, but Trask Dominated him into silence.

Talents: Acting 3, Aleness 5, Dodge 1, Empathy 5, and then took him to a hotel. Having thoroughly Domi- Intimidation 2, Subterfuge 2

Skills: Animal Ken 2, Drive 1. Etiquette 3, Firearms 1. Music 1, Stealth 1

Knowledges: Medicine 2, Occult 3, Politics |

Disciplines: Auspex 5, Celerity 1, Dominate 3, Fortitude 1, Obfuscate 3, Presence 3

Backgrounds: Allies 2, Influence 3, Mentor 3, Resources 5, Status 3

Virtues: Conscience 5, Self-Control 5, Courage 2 Humanity: 8 Willpower: 5

Notes: She always loses a Blood Point when she has a vision

Image: A thin, gaunt woman with black hair and hazel eyes. She's about 5'4" and usually dresses in styles remi- niscent of the 1920s. She almost always wears a har. Roleplaying Hints: (as Cassie) You are a little girl who wants to have fun. You love to play with anyone and everyone, and you don't let adults tell you what to do. (as Cassandra) You are a commanding presence in the Kindred community. You expect respect from your peers and groveling from your lessors. You keep careful track of prestation and never miss an opportunity to put another neonate in your debt. (as Olivia) You can't believe what's happening\! Someone has to wake you up. You're caught in a sick fantasy and there's no escape\! Haven: Cassandra has a house in Falls Church, Virginia, southeast of the District. The decor is true 1920s. A first edition copy of The Great Gatsby sits on her coffee table. Secrets: B

Influence: Cassandra has agents scattered throughout Washington, DC. Her greatest influence lies in the local historical societies and civic clubs.

Razor

This anarch Malkavian is one of the best Kindred politicians in Washington, DC. He manages to manipu late his image and reputation enough to be given credit for activities in which he has no involvement. Razor has a network of ghouls who spread information through the streets, and also uses massive amounts of graffiti to get his word out.

nated his victim, then Trask skinned him.

The expressions of agony on Stapleton's face amused Trask so much that after Gary expired. Trask Embraced him to start all over. Rolf kept Gary locked in the hotel room, bound and gagged, with a "Do Not Disturb sign perpetually hanging on the door to keep away the Con ditioned maids. Finally, enough torture was enough. Gary snapped free of the Domination. He managed to get his hands on a razor blade, and as Trask was returning from a hunt, ambushed his sire. The razor sinking into the dead flesh gave Gary a feeling of empowerment. Finally, when nothing was left of Trask but sacks of meat, Gary collected himself and fled.

Everything was different now. Gary couldn't go back to his life as a bureaucrat. Anyway, he had no power, no freedom in that life. Nothing had ever moved. him like butchering Trask. He had conquered the most powerful of enemies, and he vowed that he would never be helpless or subservient again. Changing his name to Razor, he swore he would tear down the institutions that enslaved others and reduced them to helplessness. Razor intended to awaken the masses of undead, who he

Chapter Four: The Damned

55

assumed went through their lives as he did, in a gray zone, failing to question or to think for themselves.

It is Razor's homicidal mania, combined with his sense of megalomania and paranoia, that has led him down his current path. He believes that he is the only one who can save the vampires of Washington. He wants to give them control over their unlives, and until they do rise up, he will continue to point out to them just how little control they have. His attacks are meant to he psychologically disturbing rather than to condemn his targets to Final Death. When he hunts, he enjoys mati- lating his victims, but tries to avoid murder.

Graffiti across the city taunts the Camarilla about Racor. If an anarch action takes place in Washington, he takes the credit. It is said that a night doesn't go by that the Prince's minions do not discover a new message. Most Kindred who encounter Razor never see him, and those who do see him, aren't at all sure that he is who he claims to be. Razor impersonators are always popping up in the Baltimore-Washington area. The current Razor might not even be the original but a childe of the original.

Sire: Rolf Trask

Nature: Deviant

Demeanor: Rebel

Generation: th

Embrace: 1960

Apparent Age: 25

Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 5. Stamina 5 Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 3, Appearance 3 Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 4. Wits 4

Talents: Acting 5. Alertness 4. Athletics 2. Brawl 3, Dodge 4. Empathy 2. Intimidation 3. Leadership 1, Streetwise 3,

Subterfuge 4

Skills: Drive 3, Firearms 3, Melee 4, Security 3, Stealth 5,

Survival 1

Knowledges: Bureaucracy 3, Computer 3, Investigation 4. Law 2. Linguistics 1, Medicine 1, Occult 1

Disciplines: Auspex 3, Celerity 1. Dominate 4. Obfuscate 5 Backgrounds: Allies 1. Contacts 5, Status 2

Virtues: Conscience 3. Self-Control 4, Courage 5 Humanity: 3

Willpower: 10

Notest Since Rasor has almost no skin left on his body, he has the option of healing it each night (ar a cost of four Blood Points) or leaving it as is-which is what he usually does.

Image: Razor's real form is horrendous, but no vampire has ever seen it. He uses Obfuscare to change his appear- ance, usually into a fairly average-looking guy, about 5'8", with brown hair and brown eyes. He sometimes wears a black leather jacket, but his wardrobe varies

tremendously. When Razor speaks to people, he likes to do it from a distance, preferably with a microphone and hidden speakers.

Roleplaying Hints: You are on a mission. You have to make sure that all vampires give careful consideration to their undead existence. No one should waste their eter nity like you wasted your own life. You take incredible chances, but you always have a backup plan. You're not brash or stupid, but you do love life on the edge. You always take the time to stalk and study your prey, whether they are a target for a firebomb or a practical joke. Remember that image is everything and you have a badass reputation to uphold.

Haven: Mobile. Razor has havens almost everywhere. Secrets: A

Influence: The entire non-Sabbat anarch movement.

Dr. Stephen Norton

Steve Norton was the type of person who blend into the backdrop of life. He dutifully went to his joh every day, and though he worked hard, he was never assigned a project that allowed him to demonstrate his talents. In a crowd, he was the face that no one would remember. He was always part of the audience, never up on stage. However, unlike other people who live quiet, unassuming lives, Steve Norton realized just how boring his life was, and refused to accept that he would be known for nothing better than having the best-growing E. Coli cultures in his lab at NIH (the National Institute of Health). So, Dr. Norton spent his downtime becom ing the world's greatest jewel thief.

As long as Steve could remember, he wanted to be an internationally feared jewel thief. He wanted to do something cool with his life, to be able to look in th

the

tha

je

ev

bu

th

D. C. by Night

mirror and see someone who wasn't a geek. He imagined that when he assumed the wealth and romance of the jewel thief persona he would have the last laugh on everyone. He'd be able to go wherever he wanted and buy anything he desired.

Most kids give up on their fantasies, but not Steve -he committed himself. He pursued his goal with such single-minded devotion that he became alienated from the social world. Steve Norton had no friends until he reached college. His freshman year roommate, Jeffrey Granger, was a psych major who got invited to all the parties and generally got along with everyone, even Steve. The two developed a strong friendship, which amazed them both. It was Jeff who taught Steve the intricacies of dealing with people.

Eventually Steve got his doctorate in biochemistry, and pulled off a few heists along the way. He secured an extremely boring job at NIH, researching microorgan

ms. The only bright spot of NIH was Dr. Susan Williams, a fellow employee, who saw something more than the quiet image Steve cultivated.

In light of Steve's knowledge of electronics and chemistry, his incredible agility and his formidable re search abilities, no security system was wholly safe. Steve would drive to distant cities without telling any one, just to try a new vault or repository. All of these were practice efforts for what he planned to be his biggest job: the theft of the Hope Diamond from the Smithsonian Institure.

But fate had other plans for Steve Norton. After he broke into the residence of a woman who's beautiful emerald necklace had caught his eye, Steve's car was spotted by a policeman cruising the neighborhood. Two detectives came to his home the next evening, one of whom was the Malkavian Jasper Creed, a crazed member of the Bethesda police. Jasper demanded to know where the jewels were hidden, but Steve proved uncoopera tive. Luckily for him, Jasper had never learned the Dominate Discipline. After Steve lied to him about the location of his stash, Creed shot him twice at close range. Steve lost consciousness lying in a pool of his own blood, bitterly cursing fate. He was going to die, but he hadn't lost the game. This nutcase detective had cheated

When Creed failed to find the jewels, he came back to Norton and Embraced him before interrogating him again. Steve gave Creed a new location, this time a few miles away instead of inside his house. Jasper left Steve to rot in near torpor in a bathroom, confident that the fledgling wouldn't escape during the day. Steve Norton proved him wrong. By the next evening Steve had escaped, and the next he managed to contact Prince Vitel Norton's resourcefulness impressed Virel, and while the Prince "dealt" with Jasper Creed, he made sure that Steve was spared.

While Steve might not have been the world's great- est jewel thief before his Embrace, he has improved since. Steve Norton resigned from his job at NIH and joined up with Art Morgan's coterie. He also grabbed a

cat named Spots from Melissa to be his sidekick.

Steve spends his nights driving through the city in a motorcycle with Spots, loot and possibly another vampire in a sidecar. If Marcus Vitel regrets anything about his reign, it is sparing Stephen Norton. Since Steve's Embrace, Vitel has rarely glimpsed the thief, but the Prince knows that the Malkavian has shared blood with his "daughter" Monica. He worries about what else this crazed Malkavian has discovered,

The Prince also knows that Steve Norton has a weakness-the mortal Susan Williams. If anything can decail this Malkavian's quest for knowledge, then it may be a threat to the woman.

Sire: Jasper Creed

Nature: Perfectionist Demeanor: Thrill-Seeker Generation: 11th Embrace: 1965 Apparent Age: 33

Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 5, Stamina 4 Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 3, Appearance 3 Mental: Perception 5. Intelligence 5. Wits 5 Talents: Alertness 4, Athletics 4, Dodge I Skills: Animal Ken 2. Drive 4, Etiquette 2, Firearms 3, Melee 2, Repair 2, Security 5. Stealth 5

Knowledges: Bureaucracy 2, Computer 4, Investigation 2 Medicine 3, Occult 2, Science 4

Disciplines: Animalism 1, Auspex 2, Celerity 1, Obfuscate 4 Backgrounds: Allies 2. Contacts 2, Mentor 4. Retainer 1, Resources 5

Virtues: Conscience 5, Self-Control 4, Courage 5 Humanity: 7 Willpower: 8

Notes: Steve suffers from delusions. He sees his life as part of series of novels about a great jewel thief. Every- thing has some sort of melodramatic symbolism to Steve. See that bum on the street corner\! He's an FBI agent planning to capture Steve at least that's how Dr. Norton sees things. The woman who accidentally meets his eyes is his fence, or a romantic fling from years past. Image: Steve is a nondescript fellow who prefers black clothing with spandex bodysuits beneath. He's about 5'10" with brown hair and brown eyes that scan carefully any room he enters.

Roleplaying Hints: Anal retentive and obsessive doesn't begin to describe you. You plan everything out in precise detail, leaving nothing to chance. You are part of Art's Archons, and always have numerous projects going on at

Chapter Four. The Damned

57

once. You want to see Vitel fall screaming into the Abyss for what he's put Monica through. You've seen a ghostly image of Marissa on your rides, and you want to find her. Haven: A mansion on the Virginia side of the Potomac, situated on a bluff overlooking D.C. Members of Clan Gangrel may often be found at his haven.

Secrets: A+

Influence: Steve is well respected by the Malkavians, Nosferatu and Gangrel. In additional, he still has some ties to the NIH and other health organizations.

Dr. Jeffrey Granger

When a young Jeffrey Granger attended American University, his roommate was Stephen Norton. Unlike many college roommates, they developed a lasting friend- ship and stayed together all four years. While Steve Norton went on to get his doctorate in biochemistry, Jeff Granger devoted himself to psychiatry,

After graduation he got a job at the Bethesda Insti- tute of Mental Health, where he received security clearance to treat a number of special cases, including ex-CIA agents, former bureaucrats and politicians. The rat-race of Washington produces quite a few psychiatric

cases

His talent for healing minds came to the attention of government agents. Top men decided that Dr. Granger's abilities would also work for breaking minds. They approached Granger with pretty speeches about patriotism, and he bought the rhetoric. Soon, he was spending his days healing the unstable and his nights breaking the iron-willed. The military even consulted Granger on psychological warfare, and he advised them during the Vietnam War.

Then his old roommate Steve Norton called, bab bling on about needing to talk to him. Sick of his work for the government and hoping that he might be able to help a friend, Jeff arranged to meet with him. However, all his work with the government had not prepared him for meeting a vampire. He wasn't sure how to handle it, and when Steve realized that Jeff posed a threat to the Masquerade, he frenzied and wound up Embracing his old friend.

Jeff forgave Steve a long time ago, and the two still stay in touch. Dr. Granger transformed Dr. Joshua Lyons, the director of the Bethesda Institute of Mental Health, into a ghoul several years ago, and he uses Dominate to keep Dr. Lyons in the dark about his current condition. Jeff lives at the Institute and spends most of his nights treating patients. He has amassed a number of ghouls in the asylum and plays the political games of the Washing- ton Kindred fairly well.

Jeff is also strongly empathic, and often picks up the Derangements and idiosyncrasies of those around him A few Kindred have discovered their own Derangements by conversing with Dr. Granger and watching his tran formation. This derangement of his has earned him several enemies, as he imitates the worst traits of those he meets In the world of Washingtonian vampires, Imitation is not seen as flattery. Sire: Stephen Norton Nature: Masochist Demeanors Caregiver Generation: 12th

Embrace: 1970

Apparent Age: 34

Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 2, Stamina 2 Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 4, Appearance 2 Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 4, Wits 3

Talents: Acting 4, Alertness 3, Empathy 5, Intimidation 3, Leadership 3, Subterfuge 3

Skills: Animal Ken 1, Drive 2, Etiquette 2, Security 1, Stealth I

Knowledgest Bureaucracy 4. Computer 1. Finance 1.Law I Medicine 4. Politics 1, Science 4

Disciplines: Auspex 3, Dominate 5, Obfuscate 3 Backgrounds: Contacts 1. Fame 1. Herd 5. Influence 1 Retainers 3

Virtues: Conscience 4, Self-Control 5, Courage 3 Humanity: 7 Willpower: 5

D. C. by Night

Image: Dr. Granger has sandy brown hair and dark brown eyes. He wears glasses and has a beard and mus tache with red highlights. He usually dresses his 5'7 frame in a rather ordinary suit

Roleplaying Hints: You are a caring person, but you know that you are fated to suffer. Psychotherapy is a catharsis for you. You overanalyze yourself and work

diligently for your patients. However, you've learned that there is a supernatural side to the world. You've broken minds and pieced them back together, but now you wonder, how many sane people are believed insane because they know the truth about vampires and

werewolves and the like? How many healthy minds did you break in your regular duries\! Also, how can a pay- chiatrist maintain his humanity and do the type of work that you do for the government? Guilt is your constant

companion.

Haven: The Bethesda Institute of Mental Health Secrets: C

Influence: Dr. Granger controls his asylum, and he has several government contacts. However, in recent months, Men in Black have started investigating events concerning the institute.

Chapter Four: The Damned

60

NOSFERATU

The Nosferatu lurk about beneath the feet of the powerful people, the movers and the shakers, the Washing ton insiders. Rats clamber through the vast labyrinth of sewers, old bomb shelters, and metro and ancient subway systems. For them the old trickle-down theory really works all the shit eventually reaches the bottom. And in this bureaucratic nightmare of a pompous city, there's a helluva lot of shit.

The Nosferatu get everyone's secrets and all the dirty laundry. Want to know what happened in Iran-Contra? Ask the Nosferatu. Need to know who's really responsible for Whitewater? Ask the Nosferatu. They control the metro system. They search through the trash. They know the dark, secret underbelly of DC. They know which Bone Gnawers had a hit too much vampire blood to drink. They can tell you the location of the Setite temple and the latest area of Sabbat infiltration. Of course, everything has a price or requires a favor. Knowledge isn't free.

Of all the clans, the Nosferatu have the strongest grasp on the danger that threatens the city. They stick together, even if they get on each other's nerves. Their main problem is a lack of leadership.

Nathan (Arlen)

Nathan has been on the run his entire unlife. He fled his sire in Europe, came to the New World to escape European vampiric politics and immediately found himself chased across the continent by the Sabbat. He finally found refuge in D.C, which was at that time too small to attract much notice.

He remembers the first nights, when the city was barely formed. He lived in the basement of a farmhouse and later. when that was torn down, spent most of his time under the Tiber. Afterwards, he moved to the C\&O Canal, and he still haunts that area toxday. He was quiet when the Brujah Prince took over during the war, and he was er for many years after Prince Marissa took over. He watched and listened, knowing that this was the safest course of action. Nathan doesn't want to deal with problems. He just wants to shut out the world and rule the tunnels beneath the streets. He hides and he listens

Nathan has learned that Marcus Vitel was once Sabbat. He knows that Vitel's got Sabbat allies. He even suspects that Vitel's not Ventrue. But he still just watches and listens. He does not want Peter Dorfman to be prince, but has an even stronger aversion to involving himself in the city's politics. These things will work themselves out. The

D. C. by Night

Nosferatu have all eternity. He'll wait, even though his younger brethren want to rise up. Fanning the flames of anarchy only leads to Final Death. Nathan knows. After everything blows up, he'll still be around. Sire: Francis Broderick Nature: Poltron

Demeanor: Autist Generation: 8th Embrace: 1697

Apparent Age: Indeterminable

Physical: Strength 4. Dexterity 2, Stamina 4 Social: Charisma 3, Manipulation 2. Appearance Mentals Perception 3, Intelligence 3, Wits 4 Talents: Acting 4. Alertness 4, Brawl 3, Dodge 2, Empathy 4, Intimidation 2, Leadership 3, Streetwise 2, Subterfuge 4 Skills: Animal Ken 4, Melee 2, Music 1, Repair 1, Stealth 5,

Survival 4

Knowledges: Computer 2, Investigation 3, Law 2, Linguis tics 3, Medicine 2. Occult 4. Politics 3

Disciplines: Animalism 5, Auspex 4, Dominate 1, Obfus cate 5, Potence 3, Protean 2

Backgrounds: Allies 3. Contacts 2, Herd 5, Influence 1. Stats 3

Virtues: Conscience 5, Self-Control 5, Courage 3 Humanity: 6 Willpower: 7

Image: An old, pale Nosferatu with mere wisps of gray hair hanging from his head. Nathan's eyes are a milky white with runny blue pupils, but they hold a frightening depth. He carries a walking stick and leans upon it heavily. Nathan never dresses in anything more than rags. Rats clamber around in his clothing.

Roleplaying Hints: Stare at people, but do not speak unless spoken to. You answer questions tersely and cryptically. There is more to the world than most Kindred imagine... games beyond games. You refuse to play until you can see the board.

Haven: Nathan spends his days huddled in the tunnels near the C\&O Canal, surrounded by rat servants: Secrets: A

Influence: Nathan has tremendous influence with other clans in the city, because most Kindred fear theold Nosferata's knowledge. Within his own clan, the younger Nosferatu have gotten a bir fed up with his inability to take action. The other clans, however, believe him to be some sort of monster of the sewers, for no neonates and few elders have ever seen him. Additionally, he has garnered some influence with the

sewer workers.

Amos

Somebody's got to help the street people and protect them from sickos like Courier (see below). Anos is everybody's friend. He'll watch out for them. You can trust ol' Amos. Heck, half the city trusts him. Even Princess Cynthia likes Amos. That's why Amos learns so much. Princess-wannabe Helena listens to him and gives him presents, not that he needs them, he just likes looking at Princess-should-be Heler

Amos lives on the street. He tests people by asking them for money. Sometimes he'll give nice people a present in return, and on occasion, it'll be something they can use Amos knows that most people don't understand the streets, but he thinks that someone has to teach the cruel ones a few lessons. Amos keeps several ghouls among the homeless in Washington, DC just to watch out for the street dwellers.

Amos likes the metro system, and he spends a lot of time taking trains from one part of the District to the other. He watches the action and listens to conversations on the metro. When people refuse to get off a train going out of service, he takes the opportunity to feed. Amos has a few ghouls in the metro, and Nathan makes him run trains for the Prince and his Retainers on certain nights. Amos doesn't understand why Nathan's nice to the Prince, except perhaps because he gets to see Princess Cynthia, but he's smart enough to listen to Nathan and not make the Prince angry with him.

Sire: Nathan Nature: Judge

Demeanor: Caregiver

Generation: 9th

Embrace: 1929

Apparent Age: 38

Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 3, Stamina 5 Social: Charisma 3, Manipulation 3, Appearance 0 Mental: Perception 4. Intelligence 1, Wits 3

Talents: Acting 2. Alertness 4. Athletics 1. Brawl 3. Dodge 1. Empathy 4. Intimidation 3, Leadership 1, Streetwise 5. Subterfuge 3

Skills: Animal Ken 2, Drive 2, Melee 2, Music 2, Security 2, Stealth 4. Survival 2

Knowledges: Bureaucracy 2. Investigation 2. Law 2, Lin- guistics 1, Medicine 1, Occult 1, Politics 3 Disciplines: Animalism 3. Fortitude 2. Obfuscate 4. Potence S

Backgrounds: Allies 5. Contacts 2, Retainers 5, Status 3 Virtues: Conscience 5, Self-Control 4, Courage 4 Humanity: 8

Willpower: 6

Image: Amos stinks of the city streets. Blisters cover his body, and he's only got one good eye. His skin is the color of charcoal. Amos always wears scraps of discarded clothes. He chews on his fingers. When he uses Obfuscate to change his appearance, he is an older black man with a gray beard and a twinkle in his eye. His voice is harsh and raspy Roleplaying Hints: You have more important things to worry about than Kindred: human beings. You like to talk and tell stories about people. You see something new on the streets every day. You just wish the rich would be more generous and give more to the poor.

Haven: Mobile

Secrets: B-

Chapter Four: The Damned

61

Influence: Amos could almost command an uprising of the homeless community. He controls the metro system in the city, although George Lawrence has taken more and more of a hand in running the trains, and the Ventrue have a few ghouls among Metro employees as well.

George Lawrence

At one time, George had the worst job of all. He was an English teacher in Southeast DC., one of the few who cared. Hated by his students, in competition with drugs, poverty, abusive parents, broken homes and childhood pregnancies, George Lawrence struggled to turn out produc tive members of society and to see that at least a few kids had a chance to get out. Sure he got shot at, received hate mail. and had his car trashed, but hell, most people knew he was trying. George found that as long as he had three or four drinks during the school day, it was all right.

George's drinking destroyed his marriage, ruined his finances, and nearly wrecked his teaching career. Drink became his life. He needed the alcohol to calm his nerves, to pump him up, to make him more creative in his classes. At least, it kept him away from selling or using drugs. Finally, after getting beaten up while drunk outside a North- east bar, George sought help and kicked his habit.

Life started looking up. He became a program volunteer and worked to help others with addiction problems. His ex- wife started calling him. Then, he got that first graduation announcement from one of his former students who made it through Howard University. Once again, life was worth- while. George went out and partied for the first time in months, and he made the mistake of having one drink... und then another... and then another. After he lost track of time, he stumbled into a metro station and collapsed in a corner. When he woke up, the station was closed, and he

TON

trapped inside. And he wasn't alone. He hasn't seen the light of day since. Sire: Amor Nature: Architect Demeanor: Judge Generation: 10th Embrace: 1985 Apparent Age: 35

Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 2, Stamina 4 Social: Charisma 3. Manipulation 2. Appearance 0 Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 3, Wits 3

Talents: Acting 3. Alertness 4. Athletics 1, Brawl 2, Dodge, Empathy 3. Intimidation 2, Leadership 3. Streetwise 3, Subterfuge 1

Skills: Animal Ken 3, Firearms 1. Melee 2, Stealth 3. Survival 1

Knowledges: Bureaucracy 2, Computer 1, Linguistics 1. Politics 3, Science 3

Disciplines: Animalism 2, Auspex 2, Obfuscate 3, Potence\! Backgrounds: Allies 3, Herd 4. Influence 2, Retainers 3, Status 3

Virtues: Conscience 4, Self-Control 4, Courage 5 Humanity: 6

Willpower: 7

Images George is a gnarled, twisted fellow who covers hir body with a dirty beige trench coat and his head with a Washington Bullets cap. He has narrow eyes and numerous blisters. He's about 6'1" and at cine point in his life was fairly athletic. He likes to use his Obfuscate to make himself look like a young Sidney Poitter.

Roleplaying Hints: You're a well-educated guy whoswitches between street slang and long words. You cham smoke continuously, which helps keep your heatless lungs warm on winter nights. You stress about all kinds of things, but you're quick to make friends, especially with younger vampires You don't care so much about the Sabbat-Camarilla prob lems, but you do care about right and wrong. You wish Nathan would let you do something about the fucking Setites. You have a special ally within the Bone Gnawers, a Garou called Blood Licker.

Haven: D.C. Sewer system. Secrets: B+

Influence: George will probably be the next leader of Clan Nosferatu and he has made a special point of gamering influence within the Metro transit system.

Glenn Courier

You know, there's nothing like the feel of a chainsaw as it cuts right through to the soft part of the bone. The way the hard noise changes just slightly to a softer squishy sound. Ahh, music to the cars. Yes, Courier was a serial killer, and one of the best. No one got close to catching him. It wasn't

D. C. by Night

really his fault life was just boring. He was helping the world, cleaning up the gene pool. Survival of the Fittest. Fight overpopulation. He didn't discriminate-everyone was fair game.

Then, he decided to take a trip to the nation's capital to watch government in action. Maybe he would tour the FB headquarters. Who would've thought that something had would happen if you didn't get off the train when you were supposed to?

Well, becoming a Nosferatu made Glenn realize just what a sick puppy he had been. That was what George had intended. Nonetheless, George did find a use for Courier's talents. Very few vampiric problems couldn't be resolved with the gentle application of a nice chainsaw. Sire: George Lawrence

Nature: Jester

Demeanor: Deviant

Generation: 11th

Embrace: 1988

Apparent Age: 27

Physical: Strength 4. Dexterity 3, Stamina 4 Social: Charisma 3. Manipulation 2. Appearance 0 Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 2, Wits 4 Talents: Acting 2, Alertness 3, Athletics 3, Brawl 2, Dodge 1. Intimidation 5, Streetwise 3, Subterfuge 1

Skills: Animal Ken 2, Drive 1, Firearms 1. Melee 4, Repair 2, Security 1, Stealth 3, Survival 3

Knowledges: Investigation 3, Law 3, Medicine 2. Occult 2 Disciplines: Animalist 1, Fortitude 1. Obfuscate 1, Pa- tence 2

Backgrounds: Allies 2. Mentor 3, Status 2

Virtues: Conscience 2, Self-Control 4, Courage 5

Humanity: I

Willpower: 7

Image: Courier is a bald, hunched over, shambling figure with gnarled hands. His skin ranges from a glistening deep black to sickly pale green in spots. He has several patches that look like bleeding burn scars. Courier likes to smile and show off his fangs. He wears any clothes that he can find Roleplaying Hints: You like to play with people and scare them. You're not really into massacres much anymore, but your chainsaw's great for black humor. You feed by pulling grates out from under people's feet at metro prations. Haven: Sewers

Secrets: C

Influence: Glenn is George's progeny, and his site takes care of him. Other vampires are beginning to fear him.

Toby

This internationally famous anarch really plays little role in the city's politics. Following the old adage abour excreting where one eats, he has had no involvement with D.C.'s anarchs, preferring to help the Movement on the national level.

Few creatures, whether mortal or immortal, have a better understanding of computers and computer systems. He follows Levin's efforts with amusement, and has gone to great pains to keep the Malkavian from finding out about him.

The only vampire in the city he has any regular dealings with is Nathan, whom he believes to be extremely powerful Nathan often has Toby run computer errands for him- which the neonate hacker is only too glad to do

For more information on Toby, please see The Anarch Cookbook.

Sire: Oswald

Natures Praise-Seeker

Demeanor: Perfectionist

Generation: 10th

Embrace: 1988

Apparent Age: 20

Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 1, Stamina 1

Social: Charisma 1, Manipulation 2, Appearance 0

Mental: Perception 5, Intelligence 5, Wits 5

Talents: Alertness 4, Streetwise 1, Subterfuge 1

Skills: Drive 1, Repair 4, Security 5, Stealth 2

Knowledges: Bureaucracy 1. Computer 5, Finance 2, Inves

tigation 5, Law 1, Linguistics 1, Politics 3, Science 3

Disciplines: Obfuscate 1. Potence 1

Backgrounds: Allies 2, Mentor 3, Resources 2, Status 1 Virtues: Conscience 4, Self-Control 2, Courage 3

Chapter Four: The Damned

Humanity: 8 Willpower: 6

Image: To say that Toby is chubby is an understatement- fat hangs off him like multiple balloons growing from his flesh. He cannot wear a shirt and will not get one tailored for fear of actually letting someone measure him. His face is a wasteland of acne scars and his pimples oote continually. He wipes his face with old rags, which he then throws into the sewers, as he is unable to clean them.

Roleplaying Hints: In body you may be a pitiful creature, but your mind is sharper than many others. You can see computer problems and solutions in an instant, and you use this to impress even Nathan. You brag proudly about your skills, desperate for a compliment. You heap scorn on those who do not recognize your amazing talent.

Haven: An abandoned warehouse near the Potomac. Secrets: B-

Influence: Toby can accomplish a great deal; indeed, he has even broken into the Arcanum computers. He also has growing ties with anarchs across the country.

64

D. C. by Night

TOREADOR

The chan Toreador invented Washington, DC. At least, that's their story. French clan members sent L'Enfant to design this young capital as a work of art and a new stronghold. Visionary Toreador elders dreamed of creating an entire country that would carve as a model for the future. But before they could solidify their claims and eliminate opposition to their plans, the French Revolution caught them up in its turmoil.

By the time the Toreador regained their footing, Clan Ventrue had staked claim to the capital of the United States. The Toreador saw fit to let the Ventrue pretend to control Washington, while they took over the important cities in the new country: the state capitals. Before the Toreador knew what had happened, the Civil War began and they were on the wrong side. When the dust settled, the Tremere ruled Washington, DC. and the power of the states was broken.

During the reign of Prince Marissa, the Toreador made repeated attempts to reclaim the city. Each time, the Ventrue would stab them in the back and try to take advantage of the conflict, but the ultimate victor was always Marissa. Then, during the 50s, the Tremere witch purged the city of her major Toreador opposition. By the time the Toreador had recovered, they were unable to do much except glare in fury when the Ventrue leader, Marcus Vitel, seized the power they desired. His subsequent purge of their leadership, combined with devastating attacks by the Sabbat, destroyed the clan. The elders in Europe have chosen to ignore Washington, DC, leaving it in the hands of a young Toreador named Chas Voyager and his small group of followers

Chas Voyager

Chas Voyager always knew he was destined for great- ness. He was gifted with a perfect voice, an ear for music and an innate ability to play almost any instrument, and these gifts were enhanced by his intense love for his music. He would drown in it, infusing each chord with emotion.

Chas came to the attention of a music teacher, Anne Hyatt, renowned for her ability to train talented classical musicians. She requested that Chas come to her home for tutoring, and his parents readily agreed. Anne worked with Chas for a few years, first turning him into a ghoul and Dominating him, then Embracing him to serve as her successor when a rumored power vacuum in Baltimore appeared to be an opportunity. Chas missed his family, bur Anne taught him how to release his artistic vision, and for

Chas, the poignant pain and beauty of being an immortal artist was a dream come true. He would have been happy to concentrate on his art for all eternity, but then the Sabbat slew Hyatt.

Chas fled to DC, but he realized that he could no longer ignore the rest of the World of Darkness. He harbors adeep hatred of the Sabbat and believes Prince Vitel and his minions to be the worst type of evil. He feels the same about the Tremere. Chas plans to strike against the Tremere, using political and social clout to weaken Dorfman and put someone less competent as Pontifes. Once that happens, he hopes to unite the Nosferatu, Gangrel and new Tremere in opposition to Prince Vitel.

Sire: Anne Hyatt Nature: Architect Demeanor: Visionary Generation: 10th

Embrace: 1952

Apparent Age: 19

Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, Stamina 2 Social: Charisma 5, Manipulation 4. Appearance 5 Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 4, Wits 3 Talents: Acting 4, Alertness 2, Brawl 3, Dodge 3, Empathy 5, Intimidation 3, Leadership 2, Subterfuge 4

Skills: Drive 1. Etiquette 4, Firearms 1, Melee 1, Music 5, Repair 1, Stealth 1

Chapter Four: The Damned

Knowledges: Computer 1, Finance 1. Investigation 1. Lin guistics 1, Occult 4, Politics 4

Disciplines: Auspex 3, Celerity 2, Presence 3

Backgrounds: Allies 4, Contacts 3, Influence 1, Mentor 5, Resources 4. Retainers 4. Status 4

Virtues: Conscience 4, Self-Control 4, Courage 4 Humanity: 7

Willpower: 8

Notes: Chas had always seen visions of a beautiful woman, his muse, when he was truly inspired. This muse taught him how to weave the music that touched the hearts of his audience. As time passes, Chas has begun to suspect that he may be a tool of the legendary Geneveve Orseau, a French Toreador with connections to Arcadia and the Fey. He isn't sure to what end she's playing him, but if it's to destroy Marcus Vitel, then Chas doesn't mind.

Image: An angelic-looking young man with long blond hair that cascades across his shoulders. Chas radiates an aura of inner strength that contrasts with his pretty-boy appear

Roleplaying Hints: Speak softly, and only when you know what you are saying. Play on the idea that other Toreador are snobs, but you're just one of the gang. Draw out others and try to earn their trust. Only then will you know if they can help you.

Haven: Chas maintains an apartment in Adams-Morgan and a townhouse near DuPont Circle.

Secrets: B

Influence: Despite his neonate status, Chas is the most prominent Toreador in the city. Politically he has ignored the national government and concentrated on building a number of low-level contacts in the city bureaucracy. Chas also has numerous contacts throughout the artistic commu- nities in Washington, D.C..

Angelique Stravinsky

Born in Russia before the Revolution, Angelique lived for the ballet. Her parents had given her a French name in hopes of inspiring her to dance, and of course to make a splash with the Tsarist society, where French was the language of court. Angelique was fond of saying that beyond dance, there was nothing. She performed at the Kirov, and then the Bolshoi

During the Russian Revolution, she lost everything else. Her village was destroyed, her family died fighting against the Reds and she finally lost her life. A Russian Toreador found her during the fighting between the Red and White Armies, and he decided that she deserved preservation. Afterwards, they fled to Washington, DC.

Angelique presented herself to Marissa, and the Tremere Prince, always looking for allies, immediately accepted her. Angelique developed a fondness for the Tremere, which helped to keep her alive through several purges. When

Prince Vitel took over the city, she was the first Toreador to speak in favor of his reign. She believes that he and Marissa were in love, despite all evidence to the contrary.

Then a Sabbat pack killed her sire. She went into hiding, only resurfacing when she met the Tremere Pieter Van Dorn (below). The South African expatriate's poetry softens her heart, though he often reminds her of the hated communists with his rhetoric. She and Pieter are lovers, and she wants to take him for a husband. Both clans approve of the relationship, though both Chas Voyager and Peter Dorfman watch them carefully. She still enjoys flirting with mortals and other vampires.

Angelique is one of the most influential harpies in the city, and she often spends her evenings in Elysium. The only things that prevent her from leading clan Toreador in Washington are her ties to the Tremere and the years she spent in hiding

Sire: Dmitri Karolev

Nature: Romantic

Demeanor: Bon Vivant Generation: 11th

Embrace: 1919 Apparent Age: 26

Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 5, Stamina 4 Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 3, Appearance 4 Mental: Perception 3. Intelligence 3. Wits 3 Talents: Acting 4. Alertness 2, Athletics 5. Brawl 2, Dodge 4 Empathy 4, Subterfuge 4

Skills: Drive 1, Eriquette 4, Melee 2, Music 4, Stealth 2, Survival I

Knowledges: Bureaucracy 3, Finance 2, Investigation 1, Linguistics 3, Medicine 1, Occult 2, Politics4 Disciplines: Auspex 4, Celerity 5, Dominate 3, Presence 4

D. C. by Night

Backgrounds: Allies 2, Resources 4, Status 3

Virtuest Conscience 5, Self-Control 4, Courage 4 Humanity: 8 Willpower: 5

Image: Angelique has long golden hair that cascades down her back in waves. Her eyes are sparkling emerald, and her skin has a golden complexion rather than the usual pale of undeath. She walks with the grace and poise of a prima donna.

Roleplaying Hints: You like to smile and can communicate a lot without saying much. You want to trust and believe in people, but you've played this game too long to drop your guard. You love Pieter with all of your heart, but his politics sometimes scare you. You resent the Prince's daughter Cynthia Black and consider her a rival for the vampire who could share your eternal passion.

Havent An apartment near the Kennedy Center and an apartment on Connecticut Avenue near Rock Creek Park. Secrets: B

Influence: Angelique's voice carries the most weight of any Toreador in the city, and she's almost accepted as an equal by the Ventrue and Tremere of D.C.

Rachel Evans

One of the younger Kindred in the city, as a mortal Rachel had a promising career in music. She was a child prodigy with a talent for instruments and the voice of a nightingale. Then, she flushed it all down the toilet, or injected it into her veins, when she became involved with D.C's drug culture. Her family disowned her, and she ran away to join the night life of the city. Rachel became a hanger-on at bars and a part-time singer for a bunch of death metal hands. Finally, she came to the attention of Chas Voyager one night as she was about to give it all up with a mix of about 50 of her favorite pills.

For Rachel, Embrace was a salvation. Chas took her in and gave her back het spirit and her life. He helped her to remember why she loved music, treating her like an artist and a friend. She was determined to never look back on her former life of misery and depression.

However, Rachel recently visited some of her old haunts, and found an ex-lover, David Wells, who was more than happy to let her feed from him. What she didn't know was that the Setites had given David an experimental, highly addictive mix of special drugs. She could taste the potent toxins in his blood, and her forgotten cravings returned. Though she tried to sate these cravings, none of the designer drugs on D.C. streets will satisfy her. The Setites have contacted her through a ghoul, and after they give her what she desires, they hope to control Rachel forever. Or at least for as long as she can last.

One reason why the Setite seek her is because of the rumor that the harpies whisper in the halls of Elysium: that Rachel Evans accomplished the impossible-she brought a tear to the face of Marcus Vitel with cine of her impas- sioned songs.

Sire: Chas Voyager Natures Visionary

Demeanor: Gallant

Generation: 11th Embrace: 1983 Apparent Age: 22

Physical: Strength 2. Dexterity 2, Stamina 2 Social: Charisma 5, Manipulation 2, Appearance 3 Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 4, Wits 2 Talents: Acting 2. Alertness 1, Athletics 2, Brawl 1, Dodge 3, Empathy 4. Intimidation 1, Streetwise 2, Subterfuge 1 Skills: Animal Ken 1. Drive 1, Eriquette 3. Firearms 1. Music 5, Repair 2, Stealth I

Knowledges: Computer L, Investigation 2, Law 1, Linguis ties 2, Medicine 1. Occult 1

Disciplines: Auspex 1. Celerity 1, Presence 2 Backgrounds: Retainer 1, Status 3, Resources 2 Virtues: Conscience 4, Self-Control 3, Courage 4 Humanity: 8

Willpowers 5

Image: Rachel has short red hair, soft blue eyes and a slender build. She's about 5'6" and usually wears jeans, a T-shirt and a leather jacket. When she's visiting Elysium, she takes time to put on a fashionable dress and lots of makeup.

Roleplaying Hints: You miss your wild life as a mortal, bur you also fear becoming a slave to drugs again. You don't know about the Setites plan to use you. You like having the

Chapter Four: The Damned

protection of the Prince, but both you and Chas fear that he'll Blood Bound you and make you into one of his daughters. You are very cautious when meeting neonates, almost to the point of paranoia, but you try to be friendly at the same time.

Haven: Like most D.C. Kindred, Rachel maintains a few different havens. She likes to spend her time in an apartment near DuPont, close to Chas. She keeps a special safe haven in northeast by the riveron MacArthur Boulevard.

Secrets: C

Influence: Rachel has several friends in metal bands around Washington. She also has a number of allies among the anatchs

Wayland Smith (Rene Adler)

Rene Adler, though bom and raised in Suffolk Downs, England, grew up in New York City after his family moved there. Rene was an average student, unin- spired by his various teachers. His classmates, however, fascinated him. His choice of companions were, for the most part, assorted ne'er-do-wells, would-be Mafiosos, and other street rabble. His best friend was Raphael Vega, a highly talented pick pocket. The two were inseparable, and Rene quickly learned some of Raph's tricks.

When Rene was 16, his parents took him to a local club to see a stage magician. Rene was entranced, al- though having some experience himself with sleight of hand, he was able to see through several of the tricks. After the show, the Adlers went backstage and Rene spent a few hours talking to the magician, Locke Grant. In the course of the conversation, Grant offered to take Rene on as an assistant. Rene's parents agreed, with the condition that his grades improved. After graduation, Rene went to work for Grant full time.

Eventually, Rene began an act of his own, with Raphael as his assistant. With the combination of his amazing Dexterity and magic skill, his English accent and his street- smarts, Rene quickly gained popularity on the local club scene Things were going well, until one night, after a stellar performance, the pair was confronted by a trio of muggers. Whether it was the alcohol from their celebration, the unwelcome intrusion upon a night of celebration, pure Outrage or some combination of all three, something caused Rene to snap. He attacked, grabbing a gun from the nearest mugger and firing repeatedly at the three men. After the dust had settled, Ralph and Rene had three dead muggers on their hands. The two fled in a panic, and Rene Adler, now known as Wayland Smith, quite suddenly left New York on any extended tour.

Wayland Smith eventually settled in Washington and established himself on the local club scene. He even managed to find investors to help him open his own

club, the Black Magic. Raphael stayed with him and served as a partner and bouncer. On opening night. Wayland decided to try his luck with a mysterious beauty named Angelique. He conjured a rose for her, and the evening got off to a promising start. Unfortu nately, as the two left the club to chat (and feed), an anarch accosted them. Wayland tried to defend the lady. Unfortunately, his years on the streets were no match for an opponent with Potence.

The anarch broke Wayland's neck before could Angelique use Dominate to drive the attacker off. She couldn't bear to let her gallant defender die, so she Em- braced the stage musician, then removed the memory of the night from his mind. Acting as though she were surprised to see a fellow Toreador in distress, Angelique took him to the Prince. A number of Kindred, including Wayland, suspect that Angelique is his sire, but the Prince chooses to ignore this violation of the Traditions. Undoubtedly, if Angelique and Pieter stay close, the Prince may decide to use his capital

Many Toreador elders from outside the city openly disdain the Toreador stage magician, despite the fact that Wayland conducts himself with style and flair at clan meetings. Raphael, now a ghoul, remains Wayland's con- stant companion and bodyguard.

Wayland has a personal secret which he hides from everyone-his split personality. After he murdered the muggers, two distinct personalities emerged: Wayland, the suave, cultured stage magician with the English accent, and Rene, the rough, murderous kid from the streets of New York. Rene only emerges when Wayland rides a frenzy, but he stays in control for a while after the frenzy ends. When Angelique used her Dominate, she erased Wayland's memory, but Rene knows exactly who his site is.

D. C. by Night

Sire: Angelique Stravinsky

Nature: Survivor

Demeanor: Bon Vivanr

Generation: 12th

Embrace: 1991

Apparent Age: 29

Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 4, Stamina 3 Social: Charisma 2, Manipulation 4, Appearance 4 Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 3, Wits 4

Talents: Acting 3, Alertness 2, Athletics 1, Brawl 3, Dodge 3, Empathy 2. Intimidation 2, Leadership 3, Streetwise 3, Subterfuge 3

Humanity: 7 Willpower: 6

Image: Wayland has black hair which falls to his shoulders and nearly black eyes. Notoriously well-groomed, he always dresses in the latest fashions. He's a tall fellow, around 6'3", and in great physical shape.

Roleplaying Hints: You speak with a slight English accent. although mostly just for show. You know about Renie, and you hope the world never discovers your secret. You are beginning to desire power and protection in this world of vampires, but you're not quite sure where to begin. Part of you longs to aid Razor and the anarchs-but you don't know if that's Wayland or Rene.

Skills: Drive 1, Etiquette 3, Firearms 2, Melee 3, Music 1. Haven: The Black Magic Club in Georgetown Repair 4. Security 5. Stealth 3

Knowledges: Bureaucracy 1, Computer 1, Finance 3, Inves tigation 1, Law 1, Linguistics 1. Medicine 1, Occult 2, Science 2

Discipliness Auspex 1. Celerity 1

Secrets: C

Influence: Wayland has more than a few connections with club owners in Georgetown. He also has some ins with the city bureaucracy, mainly from paying off health and safety department workers, as well as giving prominent city offi

Backgrounds: Allies 2, Contacts 2. Influence 1, Fame 1. cials VIP treatment at the club.

Herd 2, Resources 3, Retainers 1, Status 1

Virtues: Conscience 4, Self-Control 3, Courage 5

Chapter Four: The Damned

TREMERE

For most of Washington DC's history, Clan Tremere has dominated events. Prince Marissa outmaneuvered Ventrue. Toreador and Brujah challengers to her power. Although she was a woman, the elders of the clan respected herabilities. Meerlinda never fails to remind Peter Dorfman, the head of the Washington Chantry and Pontifex of the Mid-Atlantic region, that until he becomes Prince of Wash ington, DC, he will never be as important as Marissa was She doesn't have to taunt him, though. Peter Dorfman will seite power at any opportunity.

The city's Tremere are divided. Although they appear to have a unified front, most insiders know the truth. Dorfman spends more time plotting war against the West em Pontifex, Powell, than running his own Chantry. Most of the members of the clan have their own plans to replace Dorfman. Even if the Tremere Chantry had the power to overthrow the Prince (and it might), dissension in the ranks would probably doom the attempt.

Pontifex Peter Dorfman

In almost any other city, Peter Dorfman, Tremere Pontifex in charge of United States' politics, would be undisputed Prince. The ability of Marcas Vitel to retain control of his city gnaws at Dorfman. He believes in control. He believes that he should control everything.

Dorfman has one of the sharpest political minds in the entire Tremere clan, and formerly was in charge of all politics in the United States and Canada. The uncooperas nve nature of Powell, the Pontifex of the Western United States, and Dorfman's inability to seize power in his home city has diminished his stature, however, and he has become obsessed with gaining enough might to force others to his will.

Dorfman has several assets in Washington, including access to some of the world's best libraries on the occult and one of the largest collections of occult artifacts in the world. The Tremere in his Chantry are among the finest members of the clan, hand picked by Dorfman for their political prowess. And still other forces manage to deter him on every

front

The Technocracy, a group of powerful mages, guards the govemment with an organization called the New World Order. A month doesn't pass without one of their agents, the infamous Men in Black, interfering in some plani Dorfman managed to have several of them killed a few years back with an attack on the CIA headquarters in Langley,

Virginia. Despite his efforts to shut down their Chantries. the New World Order continues to spread its influence, hampering his efforts to manipulate national politics.

Dorfman's primary political agenda is to control a strong United States government that will expand its world influence and make inroads into business. He hopes even- tually to dictate world events from the Washington Chantry Much to the Pontifex's personal annoyance, the Prince shares his agenda and often calls to compliment the Pontifex on his efforts.

Peter Dorfman carries numerous magical items at all times, and these protect him from Auspex, Dominate, Presence and other forces. He is never without retainer- usually ghouls who worked for the Secret Service. The Pontifex also has access to numerous private bank accounts, giving him nearly unlimited funds.

Nearly a third of the political action committees oper ating in Washington, DC. either directly or indirectly) belong to Peter Dorfman. The majority of funds they collect go to him. The rest support candidates in office, allowing them to claim that they endorse the choices of the Ameri can people. Dorfman can affect the outcome of any election either through these PACs, through other organizations that provide media handling, or through Washington's many think tanks.

Despite his frustrations with Prince Vitel, Dorfman

finds the challenge of a worthwhile political for refreshing. He strongly suspects that the Prince has Sabbat ties, but he

70

D. C. by Night

would not support a Justicar becoming involved in D.C. affairs, unless it was the delusional Art Morgan. Whatever the outcome of the power struggles in Washington, DC., Peter Dorfman intends to have them sertled by forces within the Capital Beltway. Sire: Simon Augustyn Nature: Director Demeanor: Manipulator Generation: 7th

Embrace: 1700

Apparent Age: 38

Physical: Strength 3, Dexterity 3, Stamina 5 Social: Charisma 4. Manipulation 6, Appearance 4 Mental: Perception 5, Intelligence 5, Wits 5

Talents: Acting 5, Alertness 5, Athletics 1, Brawl 1, Dodge 3, Empathy 5, Intimidation 5, Leadership 5. Subterfuge 5 Skills: Animal Ken 1. Etiquette 5, Melee 4, Music 3, Security 1, Stealth 2

Knowledges: Bureaucracy 5, Computer 3, Finance 5, Inves rigation 5. Law 5. Linguistics 5. Medicine 2, Occult 4. Politics 6, Science 1

Disciplines: Apex 5, Dominate 5, Fortitude 3. Presence 5, Thaumaturgy 5 (Lure of Flames 5, Movement of the Mind 4. Weather Control 4, Spirit 3)

Backgrounds: Allies 6, Contacts 6, Influence 6, Fame 1. Resources 6, Retainers 6, Stats 6

Virtues: Conscience 5, Self-Control 5, Courage 5 Humanity: 5

Willpower: 10

Notes: Dorfman is part of the Traditionalist faction of the Tremere, and part of his rivalry with Powell comes from Powell's leadership among the Transitionalists. Dorfman can summon a large number of Allies from within the Traditionalist movement.

Image: Peter Dorfman dresses immaculately. Most of his suits appear to be Armani, but are made of Teflon™ (a Washington, DC. specialty item). He's a tall man, about 64' and with a decent build. He has piercing gray eyes and thinning short blond hair, streaked with silver. He always carries a walking stick, enchanted with a variety of wards and rituals.

Roleplaying Hints: You are in command of every situation. Never lose the initiative, whether strategic, tactical or social. Every pawn has its use, and there is always a need for more pawns. You have no superiors and few peers beyond Prince Vitel and Councilor Meerlinda. Above all else, never take chances with unknown quantities.

Haven: He has several havens throughout the city. The most important of them is the Octagon House, which t houses the Tremere Chantry.

Secrets: A

Influence: Peter Dorfman's influence spans continents. There are few Kindred with greater power to affect national events. He demonstrated the extent of his power in 1994, when he managed to remove a number of the mages strongest allies in national govemment.

Regent Helena Taylor

Despite being part of Clan Tremere, Helena is one of the most well-respected members of the Kindred comm- nity in Washington, DC. A leader of the city's harpies, Helena takes care of large sections of Elysium for the Prince. She also manages affairs of the Chantry for the Pontifex, and still maintains a polite word for the Nosferatu. A bewitching enchantress with dark hair and emerald eyes, almost every- one in the city owes Helena a boon, including Dr. Stephen Norton of the Malkavians.

Helena advocates strong ties to humanity, and many of the city's Kindred whisper that Helena would make a better prince than either Vitel or the Pontifex. A few suspect that she has anarch ties because of her progeny, Pieter Van Dorn's, views on politics and because Razor's attacks have never affected her considerable assets.

Het help is essential to in maintaining the fragile Masquerade in Washington. She has progeny who influ- ence the NSA, and she holds a position with the Gerlin Oil Company as a prominent lobbyist. Her favorite prey are

senators and congressmen.

Helena has one major weakness. She was a mage in life, a member of a sect of the Order of Hermes. Now, one member of her cabal, her apprentice Trevor Barron, has come to Washington, DC. to reclaim her. She knows that Trevor is inside Washington, but she fears what the Tremere might do to him if they discovered their connection. She's uncertain of how she feels about Trevor, and the thought of seeing him worries her.

Chapter Four: The Damned

Sire: Jack Weston Nature: Visionary Demeanors Plotter Generation: 9th

Embrace: 1938

72

Apparent Age: 21

Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, Stamina 4

Social: Charisma 5, Manipulation 4, Appearance 4

Mentalt Perception 4. Intelligence 4, Wits 4

Talents: Acting4, Alertness 3. Athletics 1, Bowl 2, Dodge 3, Empathy 5, Intimidation 3, Leadership 5, Subterfuge 4 Skills: Drive 2, Etiquette 4, Melce 1. Music I

Knowledges: Bureaucracy 4, Computer 2, Finance 3, Inves rigation 4. Law 5. Linguistics 4. Medicine 2, Occult 5. Politics 5

Disciplines: Auspex 3, Dominate 5, Presence 1, Protean 3, Thaumaturgy 4 (Paths: Movement of the Mind 5, Lure of Flames 4, Weather Control 3. Conjuring 1)

Backgrounds: Allies 5, Contacts 5, Influence 4, Resources 5, seems like the world tea stage for Cohn Rose, and he landed

Retainer 5

Virtues: Conscience 5, Self-Control 5, Courage 5

Humanity: 8

Willpower: 8

Image: Helena is an ivory-skinned beauty with thick black hair and deep green eves. She's 5'10" and loves to wear long flowing dresses and heels. She drives a black Jaguar and has a taste for jewels.

Roleplaying Hints: You smile at everyone and strive to make a charming fire impression. Few things will ruffle your feathers, and if something does disturb you, you will pretend that it doesn't. You prefer to reason your way out of situa tions rather than resort to violence.

Haven: Helena owns a mansion near Ward Circle in Northeast D.C

Secrets: A-

Influences Helena directs many of Getlin's affairs and. through Retainers and progeny, she has considerable influ- ence in many political organizations, including those involved in the dangerous game of watching the NSA. Her main sphere of influence is the Library of Congress. Addi- timally, she is a member of the Humanus League, and can call on these Tremere for aid.

Cohn Rose

On account of his natural talent for capturing atten tion, some Kindred have said that Cohn Rose would be a member of the Primogen if only he were a Toreador. Suave and debonair, Cohn Rose is the best public relations man of the Tremere clan. He always comes off as if he's interrupting a busy schedule just to make time to talk to whoever he happens to be meeting with. No matter what problems arise, Cohn's attitude is nonchalant. In many respects, it

the part of leading man.

Rose plays the piano like a virtuosos and he has a fine appreciation for art. He spends nearly every night in Elysium with such notables as Gloria Diamond, Angelique Stravinsky and Monica Black hanging on his arm.

Ward continually flies through the city that the Tremere will send Colin to take over as prince of a small city or establish him as regent of a chantry. Some say Cohn's long- standing rivalry with Pieter Van Dorn has kept him in DC4 he may be the only member of the chantry who wants to see Pieter's relationship with Angelique Stravinsky fail. Sire: Helena Taylor

Nature: Praise-Seeker Demeanor: Gallant Generation: 10th Embrace: 1974 Apparent Age: 26

Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 3. Stamina 2 Social: Charisma 5, Manipulation 3, Appearance 5 Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 3, Wits 5 Talents: Acting 4. Alertoess 3, Adletics 1, Dodge 2, Empathy 2, Intimidation 2, Leadership 5, Subterfuge 4 Skills: Drive 2, Etiquette 4, Melee 1, Music 4 Knowledges: Bureaucracy 2, Finance 1, Investigation 3. Law 1, Linguistics 1, Occult 4, Politics 4 Disciplines: Auspex 2, Dominate 3. Presence 2. Thaumaturgy 4 (Movement of the Mind 3, Lure of Flames 3, Weather Control 2)

Backgrounds: Allies 3, Fame 1, Herd 3, Influence 1, Re- sources 4, Retainers 3, Status 3

Virtues: Conscience 5, Self-Control 5, Courage 5

D.C. by Night

Humanity: 7 Willpower: 6

Image: Like most Tremere, Cohn adheres to the D.C. socialite dress codes, preferring expensive suits and tuxedos, Cohn is fond driving around town in a bullet-proof limou sine, courtesy of a limo service that he owns as a side business. He gets invited to all the right parties by all the right mortals, who assume that he's independently wealthy and continually ask him if he's planning to run for office somewhere. He has dark hair, bright blue eyes and a natu rally pale complexion, He always wears a rose in his lapel. Roleplaying Hints: Stay cool, calm, and collected in any situation, whether it be a restaurant serving you the wrong wine or a Garou attack. Always take the time to make every person who talks to you feel important, and never waste an opportunity to taunt or disparage Pieter Van Dom

Haven: Several. Cohn prefers his secluded brick house in McLean, Virginia, but spends most of his days in his condo- miniums on Massachusetts Avenue near the Maryland border.

Secrets: A

Influencer Cohn has his hand in almost every part of Washington, DC, but it takes some time for him to marshal his resources.

Pieter van Dorn

Pieter's origins have been instrumental in shaping his personality. Born in South Africa in 1945, Pieter watched his homeland slowly rom apart as apartheid shifted from a de facto condition to an official government policy. He also saw his father, a domineering racist, take out his frustrations on his cowed wife and increasingly rebellious son. So Pieter began to fight the system, both to save the land he loved and to destroy the man he hated.

During his years in college, Pieter began to write. Poetry became a weapon for his rage and a shield for his fears -his fear that he would become another white overlord, like his father. Public reaction to his first collection, The Burning Time, made him the darling of the growing anti- apartheid movement. As his fame grew, so did the government's hatred of him. He was invited to America to do a book tour, and he jumped at the chance; the moment he stepped onto the tarmac at Dulles in 1956, the South African government pulled his visa and passport, leaving him a stateless exile. Forbidden to return to the land he loved, he began to drift aimlessly through the bohemian culture of D.C., carrying on in the tradition of his rebellious

past

His "fame" in D.C. (such as it was) drew the attention of other autocratic groups, such as the FBI and the Tremere. In one of its dark councils, the latter, for reasons that are unfathomable, decided to Embrace Pieter van Dorn. Was it to stop a potential rebel from being Embraced by the Brujah or the anarchs? Did they recognise his interest in the occult

and his latent power? Perhaps one among the Tremere hierarchy believed in his cause; or maybe they just wanted to make his existence miserable. Pieter has never had the courage to ask. All he knows is that one day in 1975 he met Helena Taylor, and nothing was ever the same again.

When he awoke in her arms the next night, he was in love. But then he discovered what she had done to him, and he swore never to forgive her. It did not take long for Pieter to decide that the Camarilla as a whole, and the Tremere specifically, were no better than the government that had exiled him. He began to plot their destruction.

He now has contacts with the anarchs and with the Setites, whom he sees as an oppressed minority in need of his help. For their part, the Setites view Pieter as a pawn to be used for their purposes. He has become the token liberal in the Tremere, tolerated so long as he is harmless, and to be eliminated if he becomes too powerful a force. Unfortu nately for him, Pieter is beginning to gain in power.

Pieter tends to be suspicious and resentful of the "estab lishment" (any vampire who has been in DC.too long), but always makes friendly overtures to newcomers, both to gauge their usefulness and to protect them from other, more dangerous manipulators. He maintains a friendly rivalry with Cohn Rose; his latest coup was to steal Angelique Stravinsky from Cohn, and now he has now fallen deeply in

love with her.

Pieter's only real friends are Steve Norton and Tabitha Prester, his fellow "Archons". He gives small measure of trust to Art Morgan, his "Justicar", and became an "Archon" only because it provides a modicum of protection against his own big mouth. Pieter goes to all of the right night spots of DC, nattily dressed in an expensive suit and his omnipres ent (and unnecessary) cane. After all, no one ever said a revolutionary has to dress in rags...

Chapter Four: The Damned

73

Sires Helena Taylor Nature: Architect Demeanor: Rebel

Generation: 10th Embrace: 1975

Apparent Age: 30

Physical Strength 2. Dexterity 2, Stamina 3 Social: Charisma 4, Manipulation 3, Appearance 3 Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 4, Wits 3

Talents: Acting 4. Alertness 2, Empathy 3, Intimidation 2, Leadership Z, Subterfuge 4

Skills: Etiquette 3, Music 2

Knowledges: Linguistics 2, Occult 4, Politics 4

Disciplines: Auspex 1. Dominate 2. Presence 1, Thaumaturgy 3 (Paths: Movement of the Mind 3, Lure of Flames 2, Weather 1)

Backgrounds: Contacts 2, Fame 2, Herd 2, Influence 3, Mentor 2, Resources 3, Retainers 1, Status 3

Virtues: Conscience 4, Self-Control 3, Courage 3 Humanity: 8

Willpower: 6

Images Pieter is a tall, thin blond man with blue eyes. He dresses well and retains a slight hint of a South African

accent

Roleplaying Hints: You are a frustrated revolutionary, man willing to fight and die for a new tomorrow. You find yourself trapped in the most stratified and controlled envi tonment this side of Orwell: the Tremere pyramid of power. You've become a bitter, occasionally vicious, cynic. You seek to destry the clan, and with it the whole Camarilla, because they killed you, turned you into this monster. Part of you remains a true romantic, though-a lover of beauty. poetry and women. You enjoy waxing lyrically about the grandeur of your homeland, the sunsets over Table Moun tain or the stam: those fixed gemstones in the night over the Kalahari.

Secrets: B

Influencer Pieter has some influence in political and liter ary circles, particularly the more liberal ones. Some anarchs also believe in Pieter and take his poetry to heart.

Hans Schmidt

Hans Schmidt is an example of one of the Kindred who visits DC regularly. During World War II, he was one of the greatest Nazi occultists. He searched the world for occult treasures, hoping to aid Hitler's dreams for world domina- tion. The Tremere Embraced Dr. Schmidt during the war, and he has been of vital service to the clan ever since.

Ostensibly, Schmidt visits D.C. to search through the Library of Congress and the National Archives for useful items. In addition, he reports back to Meerlinda as to events in the city and carries out special clan missions involving

national and international politics. The clan sees him as both competent and expendable.

Dr. Schmidt has access to powers unknown even to his superioes. He realized that the Tremere were limiting his abilities, quite possibly out of fear. However, he managed to locate copies of the lost works of the Essenes during the time he spent working for the Nazis. These texts deal exclusively with angelology and demonology.

With the Essene books, Dr. Schmidt learned the for bidden arts of Dark Thaumaturgy. He keeps this secret carefully hidden from the other Tremore and hopes that he can gradually corrupt the D.C. Chantry, starting with Cohn Rose and Pieter Van Dom. His demonic masters whisper many secrets to him, and they've promised to reward him with more power when the Chantry falls.

Dr. Schmidt spends little time at the Octagon House, Instead, he likes stay either outside the city, alternating between comfortable mansions in Maryland and Virginia, or inside the National Archives or the Library of Congress Schmidt is a chauvinist and an Aryan supremacist. He discounts most women and all minorities. He especially hates the Nosferatu.

Dr. Schmidt has formed his own cult, the Follower of

the Body of God, with mortal members all around the world. Several of his followers are ghouls, and many of the rest serve as sacrifices to his Dark Lords.

Siret Marguerite Vos

Nature: Deviant

Demeanor: Loner Generation: 11th Embrace: 1940 Apparent Age: 38

Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 2. Stamina 3 Social: Charisma 2, Manipulation 4, Appearance\!

D. C. by Night

Mental: Perception 4, Intelligence 5, Wits 3

Talents: Acting 3, Alertness 3, Dodge 2, Empathy 1, Intimidation 4, Leadership 3, Subterfuge 4

Skills: Animal Ken 1, Drive 1, Etiquette 2. Firearms 1. Melee 2, Stealth 3, Survival 3

Knowledges: Bureaucracy 3, Finance 1, Investigation 5, Law 3. Linguistics 4. Medicine 3, Occult 5. Politics 4. Science 2

Disciplines: Auspex 3, Dominate 4, Obfuscate 3, Thaumaturgy 4 (Paths: Lure of Flame 3, Dark Thaumaturgy 3, Elemental Mastery, Movement of the Mind 1) Backgrounds: Contacts 4. Fame 1, Herd 5, Influence 3, Resources 3, Retainers 5

Virtues: Callousness 5, Instincts 4, Morale 5 Path of Evil Revelations: 2

Willpower: 7

Image: Dr. Schmidt is a clean-shaven gray-haired man, about 5'4" tall. He wears glasses and a business suit except when performing rituals. He speaks with a slight German

accent.

Roleplaying Hints: You don't trust anyone. Let no one near you. If someone learns something about you, kill them. All that matters are your masters. If you serve them well, then you will be rewarded in kind.

Haven: Dr. Schmidt travels extensively, but keeps his main haven in Vienna. The clan keeps two mansions for him around D.C. Secrets: D

Influence: Schmidt's influence is weak, spread as it is throughout the world. Still, there is no telling what he has up his sleeve.

Chapter Four: The Damned

75

76

Ventrue

Clan Ventrue nominally runs Washington, DC. Sev- eral members of the clan respect Prince Marcus Vitel and hold him as an example of the finest type of Ventrue. Other Ventrue inside and outside the city sapeer that something's not quite right about this prince, who manages to keep the Sabbat in check and successfully put the Tremere in their place. However, the Ventrue rest easier during the day rationalizing away the Prince's wide range of Disciplines and ancient blood. Most don't want to think about the fact that only three members of the clan left alive in Washing ton, DC. predate Marcus' reign. They would be more concerned if they knew that all but two influential members of the clan in the city are Blood Bound to the Prince.

Some older Ventrue who visit the city dislike the regular meetings of the Prince's primogen, claiming that it seems like some sort of concession to anarchs, although they appreciate the fact that the Ventrue have a seat on the Council as well as having the Prince. Vitel tries to discour age members of his clan from coming to Washington, DC. because of the terrible savagery of Carou and Sabbat attacks.

Dorian Adams

Few Kindred play the game as well as Dorian Adams Known to most as the "Old Bat of Washington," Dorian gracefully stepped aside as head of Clan Ventrue when Marcus Vitel came to the city. When Vitel became Prince. Dorian smoothly removed himself from city politics and retired to his castle out in the Maryland suburbs, between Washington and Annapolis.

The elders of Washington say that Dorian Adams is derunged, madder than a Malkavian. When the Prince requests his presence, Dorian Adams arrives playing the role of a cinematic vampire to the hilt. He sweeps inside with his black cape and even speaks with a bad American impression of a Rumanian accent.

Dorian Adams worries the Prince more than Peter Dorfman does

Castle Adams, as it is commonly known, lies hidden beside a dirt road that winds through Maryland forestland. Its towers and gargoyles lend the place an intensely Gothic aura. The defenses of the castle are reputedly magical. A few years ago, several Sabbat packs stormed the castle and managed to break in. None were ever seen again. The elders of Washington generally refuse to visit the castle, although Dorian is quick to offer invitations whenever he appears in public. The truth about Castle Adams is that it is is maze of secret corridors, high-tech security systems and magical

traps, the creation of an incredibly paranoid vampire with years of practice in preparing defenses.

Dorian Adams fears for his very existence. He knows that Marcus Vitel is a Lasembra, although he wishes that he had discovered this in time to warn Prince Marissa, He doesn't dare to breathe of this knowledge to anyone, because he's certain that the Prince will use any excuse to destroy him. But if Prince Vitel ever drops his guard, Dorian Adams intends to take the opportunity to send the madman scream- ing to Final Death.

Adams has developed connections with the Inconna who plan to use him to dethrone Marcus Virel. They appear to him in daymares and send messengers to Castle Adams Recently, they've insisted that he uncover more informa tion, but so far, Adams has refused to enter D.C, unless absolutely necessary.

Dorian Adams only feeds off the blood of attractive loyal ghoul whom he calls Igor to further his stereotypically helpless women (Appearance 3 or more) and he keeps a

mad role. Dorian's act was just that at first. However, year of playing the deranged eccentric lord of Castle Adams have begun to wear upon his sanity.

Sire: Thomas Carlyle Nature: Survivor Demeanor: Deviant Generation: 5th Embraces 1701

D. C. by Night

Apparent Ages 40

Physical: Strength 5, Dexterity 4. Stamina 5 Social: Charisma 5, Manipulation 5. Appearance 3 Mental: Perception 5, Intelligence 4. Wits 5

Talents: Acting 5, Alertnes 5, Athletics 1, Brawl 3, Dodge 4, Empathy 2, Intimidation 5, Leadership 4, Subterfuge 5 Skills: Animal Ken 3, Eriquette 4, Melee 4, Music 4, Repair 2, Security 4. Stealth 5. Survival 4

Knowledges: Bureaucracy 2, Finance 3, Investigation 2, Law 1, Linguistics 1. Occult 5, Politics 3

Disciplines: Auspex 3. Animalian 2. Celerity 2. Date 4. Fortitude 5, Obfuscate 4, Potence 2, Protean 4, Presence 4 Backgrounds: Allies 3, Resources 4, Retainers 1, Status 4 Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 5, Courage 3 Humanity: 7

Willpower: 10

Image: Dorian Adams dresses as a cinematic vampire, with a sweeping red lined black cape and old-style tuxedo. He is a very tall, thin man, standing about 6'6"

Roleplaying Hints: Don't trust anyone outside the walls of your castle. Play Bela Lugosi no matter what happens. If you are truly threatened, then unleash just enough of your power to keep yourself alive.

Haven: Castle Adams, somewhere in Maryland. Secrets: A

Influence: Dorian Adams rerains almost no real influence in either Clan Ventrue or Washington, DC. This is prob ably why he stays alive, Castle Adams or no. However, Dorian believes that he could regain influence quickly if the need presented itself.

Dr. Edward Walker

Beneath his kindly exterior, Dr. Walker is one of the least human of all of Washington's vampires. He came to Washington, D.C. during the Civil War, full of idealism and hoping to help win the war against the South. He intended to patch up wounded soldiers and get them either back to the front lines or home to their families as soon as possible.

As the war progressed, Washington became a city of sickness and death, as temporary hospitals were set up all across the Mall. The fantastic amount of human suffering all around ambittered and frustrated the young doctor. No matter how talented he was, or how many young lads he brought back from death's door, the piles of corpses contin ued to grow. His idealism faded even as victory neared.

By the time President Lincoln was assassinated, Edward Walker was one of the city's most celebrated physicians Slowly, however, he was growing to resent his patients, and to despise the course he had chosen for his life. Lincoln's death was the spark he needed to retire. Dr. Walker had one patient to see before his planned departure, however: Mr. David Case, an influential government insider, who suppos edly suffered from a rare blood disease. In reality, Case was

a powerful Ventrue with plans to unseat Prince Marissa. He Embraced Walker with the hope that the well-known doctor would be able to provide him with access to a number of important officials

Case's uprising failed miserably, and Marissa herself personally incinerated him. But Dr. Walker was successful in pleading his case to Prince Marisan, and she merely Blood Bound him rather than raking him out for the morning sun. Though he served her adequately during her reign, Dr. Walker really came into his own after her destruction

Since 1968, Dr. Walker has expanded his sphere of influence considerably. He now controls many of the retire ment and nursing homes in the DC. metro area. These make prime feeding grounds, for deaths go practically unno- ticed, and certainly unquestioned. He spent his lifetime trying to heal the sick; now, the dying make his immortal existence less painful. Dr. Walker may only feed on the old and the infirm.

Sire: David Case Nature: Curmudgeon Demeanor: Caregiver Generation: 8th

Embrace: 1866

Apparent Age: 50

Physical: Strength-3, Dexterity 4. Stamina 3 Social: Charisma 3, Manipulation 4. Appearance 2 Mentals Perception 3, Intelligence 3, Wits 2 Talents: Acting 4. Alermess 2. Empathy 3, Intimidation 2. Leadership 1, Subterfuge 5

Skills: Enquette 1, Firearms 1. Melee 3, Music 2, Repair 1 Knowledges: Bureaucracy 3, Computer 1, Finance 1, Law 1. Medicine 4, Occult 5. Politics 3, Science 2

Chapter Four: The Damned

Disciplines: Auspex 2, Celerity 2, Dominate 5, Fortitude 3, Necromancy 3, Potence 2. Presence 3

Backgrounds: Allies 4. Contacts 3, Resources 5, Retainers 5, Status 3

Virtues: Conscience 5, Self-Control 3. Courage 3 Humanity: 3 Willpower: 7

Image: Dr. Walker is hald except for a few wisps of gray hair which he greases down to his scalp. He wears thick glasses and walks with a cane. He's only about 5'5", and he prefers to sit rather than stand. He wears gray suite with how ties Roleplaying Hints: You present yourself as the authorita- tive doctor, the man who's read every medical text ever written. You rarely deals with Kindred society, wanting no part of the posturing and politics.

Haven: Dr. Walker spends his days in the basement of one of his many nursing homes.

Secrets: D

Influence: Edward Walker has some pull in the medical community, and he's willing to abuse his elderly patients to achieve his twisted ends. He has also developed ties to the Giovanni, which is of benefit both them and to him.

Gino Manitelli

During the 20s and 30s, Washington, DC. attracted a great deal of mob attention. The government took a more prominent role in everyday life, making decisions that affected businesses and unions and setting prohibition in place. J. Edgar Hoover took over the FBI. It was also in these days that some New York crime bosses sent Gino Manitelli to Washington, DC. to help straighten a few things our with the government.

Gino was a bit rough around the edges when he started his career, but he had a good bloodline. Mary Singer, a local Ventrue elder and one of the city's more prominent women. noticed him, and decided that a progeny from outside the city who knew how to use a gun might be useful, especially for combating Giovanni incursions into the nation's capt- tal. Prince Marissa agreed to grant Mary her boon, and the young, hot-blooded Gino Manitelli was suckered into a honey trap and Embraced.

Times have changed. Mary has long been ashes and there's a new Prince running the big show. Manitelli was quick to see the change in the wind with Prince Vitel's arrival. He was the first to recognize Marcus as head of clan Ventrue and the first to acknowledge him as the new Prince of Washington, DC. Besides, Gino gor a kick out of having un Italian prince.

Unfortunately, the Sabbat began to targer Gino's en- deavors. After enough of his plans had been interrupted and Gino had risked the Masquerade with his frenzies, Marcus required him to renew his vows of loyalty and become Blood Bound to the Prince, Gimo has remained loyal ever since,

and he has profited immensely from the Prince's reign. His relationship to Marcus mimics a gangster's relationship to his godfather, so much so that during one exchange, Cynthia Black actually laughed out loud. However, Gino takes these things very seriously.

Gino even has a ghoul name Guido who does all hi dirty work. Once a reserve lineman for the Washington Redskins, Guido has been Blood Bound and Dominated, und is now a perfect tool for Gino's purposes. Sire: Mary Singer

Nature: Traditionalist Demeanor: Conformist Generation: 11th Embrace: 1932 Apparent Age: 28

Physical: Strength 4, Dexterity 3, Stamina 5 Social: Charisma 3, Manipulation 2, Appearance 3 Mental: Perception 4. Intelligence 3, Wits 5

Talents: Acting 2, Alertness 4. Athletics 3, Brawl 3, Dodge 3, Empathy 2, Intimidation 5, Leadership 4, Streetwise 4. Subterfuge 2

Skills: Drive 3. Etiquette 3, Firearms 4. Melee 3, Music 2, Security 3, Stealth 3

Knowledges: Bureaucracy 2, Investigation 3. Law 2. Lin- guistics 1, Occult 3, Politics 3

Disciplines: Dominate 3, Celerity 2, Fortitude 5, Poterice 2, Presence 3

Backgrounds: Allies 5. Contacts 2, Influence 4, Resources 4, Retainers 5, Status 3

Virtues: Conscience 5, Self-Control 4, Courage 5 Humanity: 5

Willpower: 8

78

D. C. by Night

T

Image: Gino is a good-looking man who typically wears suits that are slightly out-of-date. Though he prefers pin- stripes, he wears them only infrequently so as not to attract the notice of less tasteful modern Americans. He has black hair, but is never without a hat. Although Gino is about 62, he looks much shorter, because Guido, who's perpetu ally beside him, stands at 6'7", and the monstrous ghoul is nearly as broad as he is high.

Roleplaying Hints: You speak with a New York accent, and you believe in attempting to reason with people before adopting a more drastic approach. If a Kindred's willing to be reasonable, than you and the Prince have no problems. If she isn't, then you'll have to make an example of her. Your favorite method is to break her into tiny pieces, stuff her in a box and mail her back to her haven.

Haven: Gino has a townhouse in Southeast D.C. He also has safe houses in Alexandria and up near Friendship Heights in Northeast. Gino generally stays wherever the Prince wants him to be... Secrets: C

Influence: Manitelli has some ties with organized crime rings in the city, and also has his hand in international shipping. One of his goals is to legalize gambling within the Dutrict. His largest criminal enterprise is a gun-smuggling operation. He has pawns throughout the area's law enforce ment groups, including a few in the DEA.

Karina Dobson

The most valuable commodity in the 20th Century is information, and Karina Dobson provides Marcus Virel with all that she can gather. Trained as an investigator for the Department of Defense, Karina can erase a person's identity with a signature. She knows all the tools of her trade, including how to use lasers to listen to window vibrations, how to turn any telephone into a listening device, the process of using fiber optics for spying and methods to break into almost any government database. A little authorization can go a long way. When a mortal imitates her, she can have them legally killed (issued a death certificate) with a simple telephone call.

Karina also controls one of the Prince's most important aces in Washington, DC. She managed to locate one of the Delta Force teams kept on emergency duty inside the nation's capital, and after the wildest night in her unlife. transformed them all into ghouls. In her opinion, the Delta Force team of ghouls can deal with any menace, supernatu ral or mundane. In an early test, they managed to annihilate a pack of Garou which wandered too close to the city

Karina is Blood Bound to the Prince, but with the power he gives her, she'd probably stay loyal to him even if he beat her into a torper every week. As it stands, she has a fanatical devotion to maintaining the reign.

Although Karina may be Marcus's most important asset, none of the Kindred are fully aware of the depth of her

resources, and that's exactly how Karina likes it. Even her sire stumbled across her accidentally, and the Prince pur posely limits contact between Gino and Dobson.

often visits the Pentagon and the Bethesda Naval Hospital Karina can only feed from military personnel, so she

Sire: Gino Manitelli Nature: Fanatic Demeanor: Director Generation: 12th Embrace: 1973 Apparent Age: 28

Physical: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, Stamina 3 Social: Charisma 3, Manipulation 4, Appearance 2 Mental: Perception 5, Intelligence 5, Wits 4

Talents: Acting 2, Alertness 4, Athletics 3. Brawl 1. Dodge 2, Empathy 4. Intimidation 1. Leadership 4, Streetwise 2, Subterfuge 4

Skills: Animal Ken 1, Drive 3, Etiquette 1, Firearms 3, Melee 2, Repair 3, Security 5, Stealth 4. Survival Knowledges: Bureaucracy 5, Computer 3. Finance 2, Inves tigation 5, Law 3, Linguistics 2, Medicine 3, Occult 3. Politics 2, Science 3

Disciplines: Dominate 3, Fortitude 1, Presence I

Backgrounds: Allies 5, Contacts 5, Herd 3, Influence 4, Military Force 4, Retainers 5, Resources 2, Status 2 Virtues: Conscience 5, Self-Control 5, Courage 4 Humanity: 6 Willpower: 6

Image: Karina is only 5'2", with short brown hair, soft brown eyes and glasses. In life, she worked out regularly and is still rather fit. She always seems pleased, as though she has a secret that no one can guess. She wears casual clothing and drives a jeep.

Chapter Four: The Damned

79

D.C. By Night 

1945

Chapter Five: Circles Within Circles

Washington isn't a city, it's an abstraction.

\-Dylan Thomas

Washington, DC. is a city governed by political intrigue. Here it's not a matter of what you know, it's who you know. The Kindred of Washington emulate the mortals, or perhaps it's vice versa. Every day, alliances shift, enemies become bedfellows and the entire system changes. The subtle machinations of power are fascinat ing, nearly intoxicating, as the eternal struggle of the Jyhad plays itself out on many different levels. For those on the outside, nothing ever appears to change. Only the city's heart is chaos, the workings of the powerful taking place behind an invisible barrier which separates them from the world.

The Prince's Allies

Members: Marcus Vitel, Karina Dobson, Gine Manitelli, Jack

Washington, DC. is Marcus Vitel's personal fiefdom, and Marcus understands the subtleties of power neces sary to run it effectively. He takes great pride in playing the Ventrue against the other clans, and in using the Sabbat and the Camarilla both to further his own ends.

Fear is his ultimate weapon; the Prince has never called a Blood Hunt, preferring instead to make his targets suffer from unfulfilled anticipation

Prince Vitel maintains a close circle of advisors, and consults also with his daughters on many decisions. The Prince may even ask newcomers for their opinions on problems or situations, Most Kindred see this type of questioning as a rest, but in actuality, Vitel keeps his mind open to alternatives and avenues that he may not have considered.

The Prince also believes in delegating responsibil ity. He knows that he cannot micromanage the entire city, nor does he want to. In order to increase his support among the neonates, he will offer them decent hunting grounds or control of a ghoul in a high position. These are always areas that have little value to the Prince or ghouls that won't be missed, but which appear valuable on the surface.

The Prince gives his personal cellular number and offers advice and aid to neonates in the event that they have any problems. When a neonate proves competent, the Prince offers her a hit more authority, then has his

Chapter Five: Circles Within Circles

91

Sabbat allies sabotage her new area. The Prince will then explain that he cannot afford to have incompe- rents working for him, but that he will let the situation pass for now. All the neonate has to do is demonstrate her loyalty by drinking from a chalice of the Prince's blood. In this manner, the Prince manages to Blood Bound new pawns

The Ventrue do most of Marcus' work for him. Karina Dobson and Gino Manitelli are both reliable servants. The relationship between Karina and Gino is strained at best, but this is how Marcus prefers things. As long as they are fighting one another, they won't fight him. Each of these individuals commands a number of ghouls and progeny which further serve the Prince.

Gino Manitelli keeps a watch on the D.C., police and the underworld. He's aware of the Setite influence. but so far, the Prince has refused to divert enough resource to do anything more than contain their spread. Marcus is still trying to decide how to turn the Setite situation to his best possible advantage.

Karina Dobson is Marcus intelligence gatherer. Her duties are virtually unknown to other Kindred. She prepares regular reports for the Prince on the state of the city and the nation. Armed with this information, Marcus calls the princes of other cities and offers appropriate boons. After the great flood of 1993, several desperate midwestern princes owed boons to Vitel.

Prince Vitel rarely involves himself in the night-to- night affairs of his domain. In order to understand his method of rule, one must first understand his philosophy of power. The Prince believes that power ultimately stems from perception. He rarely uses his Disciplines or walks the halls of Elysium. He appears to wave the flag of authority, but that's all. Vitel believes that if he lets the other Kindred of the city learn the true extent of his personal power, no matter how great that might be, it won't compare to the measure of power that they imag ine he possesses.

Prince Vitel plans his time carefully. If something disrupts his schedule, he treats it as a minor irritation When he takes action, it is decisive and overwhelming This is not to say that he can't also be kind. He takes

THE PRINCE'S ALLIES

Jealous

Karina Dobson

Low Life

lecredible

Pretentions Pain

Pleasant

"The Boss"

Great Man

Amusing

Jack

Marcus Vitel

Gino Manitelli

92

D. C. by Night

THE PRINCE'S DAUGHTERS

Monica Black

Vile

Ignorable

Cynthia Black

every possible step to make the lives of new Kindred easier, having observed that neonates are usually inse- cure creatures, and desperately looking for help. He promises protection and assistance to those who serve him loyally, and never makes a promise that he cannot keep.

In many ways, Prince Vitel operates like a tradi- tional Mafia godfather. He inspires respect and fear in other powerful individuals, including his own daugh- ters. He relies on this atmosphere to create expectations in others that will serve to protect him. He wants to maintain this powerful impression so that even if he wished to leave D.C. for a week, all of the Kindred in the city would still be too terrified to raise a hand against him.

One final note on Prince Vitel. He is loathe to throw away anything that may one day come in handy. Perhaps that's why the Pontifex Peter Dorfman remains extant. The Tremere also serve Vitel's interests: no matter how much a Kindred may hate his reign, most of them fear Tremere control over Washington, DC. even more. If only they knew....

When Marcus Vitel needs the Sabbat's support for his plans, he calls on Jack. Of all the vampires in the city, Jack knows the most about Sejanus, but he's as damned as Lucus if they ever slip up, and the Sabbat would take their time sending Jack to Final Death. Jack gives Marcus his two cents worth whenever they talk.

The Prince's Daughters

Members: Monica Black, Cynthia Black

The Prince's daughters are the Kindred with the most status and least power in the city. Treated like royalty by most, when it comes to controlling their own lives, they are nothing more than toys for Vitel's enter rainment.

Monica hopes that rebellion will rise up and sweep Marcus away. She is certain that her generation and allies will put her in a position to take control of a city of her own in the aftermath of such a conflict. Perhaps not Washington, but Monica Black intends to become a prince some night. She tries to stay on good behavior with Marcus because she clings to the hope no matter how foolishly, that he will give her reign over Rockville, Tyson's Comer, Alexandria or one of the other cities surrounding the District, Monica hates Cynthia with a paction, both because she acts so stupid and because the will not rebel against Marcus at all.

Cynthia Black is confident that when Marcus Vitel falls, her hand will hold the stake that impales him Cynthia feels that Monica is a fool, blatantly displaying her rebellious nature and daring to defy Marcus in spite of his utter power over her. Cynthia believes that the Prince, like many men, can be blinded by flattery and made to lower his guard. When that moment comes, the Black Hand will have one less enemy. Cynthia tries to gain pawns and tools, like Pieter van Dorn and Cohn Rose who will support her after the Prince falls, and who will make her life more relaxing in the present.

The Prince knows far more about his daughters than they suspect. He favors Monica, although he would never tell her so. Of anyone, only Monica has the courage and the fire to serve as his queen in the new world. She must grow a great deal before she will be fit to replace Marissa, but there's time.

Cynthia, on the other hand, is not long for this world. Marcus knows that she's an operative of the Black Hand, and he wants to have at least one agent near him. Better the enemy that he knows than one he doesn't. As long as the Black Hand believes they have an agent of that organization close to him, they won't attempt to deter any of his plans. Now he waits for her to recruit a new member, perhaps Pieter van Dom. Three nights after she has made herself an

Chapter Five: Circles Within Circles

93

94

ally, she will die. Her games are amusing, but the Prince has had enough. He hopes that Monica will learn from her example when he sends her soul into the Abyss

Both women need Marcus, at least for now. They are prime targets for diablerie and thus depend upon the Prince's protection. On those rare occasions when they are away from their father, they have heavily armed ghoul body gards to provide cover in the event they should need to make a quick escape.

The Tremere Chantry

Helena's greatest fear is the mage Trevor Barron. Though she once loved her apprentice, his presence in the city now could ruin everything. Helena could Embrace him, but if she did, then the Prince would have her soul via prestation. Helena knows that both Art Morgan and Pieter have met the mage, het inevitable confrontation with shadows every thing she's worked so hard to build.

Cohn Rose supports Peter Dorfman as long as the Pontifex and Meerlinda keep stroking his ego. All Cohn wants is center stage, and he's willing to screw anyone to get it. Only the Prince does a better job of gaining boons than

Members: Peter Dorfman, Helena Taylor, Pieter Van Cohn Rose. The Tremere also has contacts with the anarchs Dorn, Cohn Rose, Dr. Hans Schmidt

The Tremere head the opposition to Prince Vitel. Led by Pontifex Peter Dorfman, the Tremere's power base in Washington, DC is not to be raken lightly. If it weren't for the Prince's secret Sabbat allies, the District of Columbia might again belong to Clan Tremere.

The Pontifex, unlike the Prince, continually makes his presence known in the city. He goes to nightclubs, visits Elysium and attends political functions. Peter Dorfman exudes self-confidence, a sense that is backed by the various mystical items he carries with him.

Few things escape the notice of the Pontifex, and he is constantly on the search for new pawns in his games of power. Dorfman also probes for any chinks in the Prince's armor He knows that Prince Vitel has many skeletons in his closet but refuses to act on any suspicion without absolute proof.

The Trenere have some of the most competent elders in the city. Unfortunately, the Pontifex spends too much time playing large-scale political games to notice much of the maneuvering within his own Chantry

Helena Taylor is constantly on the watch for the Pontifex to make some small mistake. She is always flitting around Elysium and is a close friend of with Monica Black's The two women have a great deal in common, and have made an agreement that if either assumes the position of their current master, they will also work to replace the other's. Helena would like to serve as primogen of Clan Tremere in Washington, DC, but she's certain to be transferred to another city. The Tremere don't intend to have any individual tie herself too tightly to a particular region, especially the capital of the United States. Clan Tremere doesn't want another Prince Marissa, whom even the Circle of Seven had difficulty controlling.

Helena maintains a close bond with all of her progeny, especially Pieter Van Dorn, the Chantry's resident rebel Both she and Peter Dorfman allow Pieter's rebellious streak to run its course, using him to gain information about their enemies. Of course, Van Dorn honestly believes in his poetry and anarch sentiments, which makes him the perfect agent.

and the Toreador. He suspects that Rachel Evans is having some trouble, and that Chas Voyager is plotting to over throw the Prince. Cohn enjoys taunting the Toreador Primogen and, unlike his friendly rivalry with Pieter van Dorn, Cohn and Chas don't like each other. Cohn gets along well with Cynthia Black, though Cynthia has re- cently been less interested in Cohn on account of his relationship with Angelique Stravinsky

Pieter van Dorn recognizes that he has more liberty to speak his mind than most of the other Chantry members. Sometimes he deludes himself into believing that the Pontifex fears a confrontation with him. Other times, he's certain that he's just another helpless pawn in the games of elders and Methuselahs, Pieter sees Helena as his mother, but while he has a hit of an Oedipal complex. he wants her to get together with Trevor. Pieter believes in love, and finds himself developing deep feelings for Angelique. Pieter doesn't trust the Pontifex or Dr. Hans Schmidt.

Hans Schmidt doesn't consider himself part of the Chantry, except as a matter of convenience. He hates the lot of them, and he's certain that the Dark Lords will enjoy feasting on their tainted souls.

Elysium Harpies

Members: Helena Taylor, Monica Black, Cynthia Black, Angelique Stravinsky, Cassie and Cohn Rose.

The Elysium crowd determines the distribution of the morsels of power dropped by the Prince, and in many ways they actually have more control than the primogen. The harpies listed above are only the most important members.

Helena Taylor and Monica Black treat each other us sisters and equals; in fact, more than a few neonates have actually thought that Monica and Helena were the Black sisters, rather than Monica and Cynthia. Each of the two regards other vampires differently, however. Helena prefers to look at things in a positive light and is more trusting of other Kindred, while Monica is skeptical of everyone's intentions. The two enjoy playing games with their pawns and seeing which one of them can exert more influence over the city.

D. C. by Night

THE TREMERE CHANTRY

Hates

Dr. Hans Schmidt

Hates

Dislikes

lates

Distrusts

Admires

Manipulates

Appreciates

Fears

Con Rese

Peter Dorkman

Pieter Van Dorn

Likes

Desires/Dislikes

Watches Closely

Wants to Replace

Helena Taylor

Pities

T

The other members of the Elysium crowd take their cues from Monica and Helena. Angelique falls in behind Helena, while Cohn and Cassie tend to support Monica's views. Cynthia always sides against Monica.

Cohn enjoys flirting with the harpies, and through then, he's privy to the origins of many rumors and ex- changes. He believes that Monica and Helena are simply tools of the Prince and the Fontifex, respectively, but he would never express this to them. Cohn establishes new fashion trends for the men in the city, and the harptes generally tease him about being more Toreador than Tremere.

Cassie's visions are always fun for the Elysium addicts, and despite what Cassanda may want to believe, they are the primary reason she's invited to all the social outings Entire nights are spent in speculation upon Cassie's visions. Angelique has pointed out to the others on more than one occasion that if Cassie were faking these visions, she is doing a clever job of manipulating the rest of them. Regardless of whether Angelique is correct, none of the other Elysium regulars wish to lose out on the fun of puzzling over Cassie's prophecies.

Every month, each

of the Elysium members must bring a Kindred with them to one of the events. This may be an after hours tour of a museum, a concert, or a good play a

Chapter Five: Circles Within Circles

96

Cynthia Back

ELYSIUM HARPIES

Respects

Cassandra

D. C. by Night

Manipulates

Discounts

Distrusts

Helena Taylor

Friendly Rivalry

Likes

Respects

Cohn Ruse

Hirts With

Tess With

Likes

Monica Black

Distrusts

Admires

Doesn't Trust

Respects

Angelique Stravinsky

PRIMOGEN COUNCIL

A Bere

Sanctimonious

Dr. Edward Walker

The Dark Destroyer"

Manipulable

Very Pleasant

Respectable

Helena Taylor

Cassandra

Unsettling

Toy

Talented

Marcus Vitel

Better than Dorfman

Annoying

An Obstacle

Barely Competent

Interesting

Possible Pawn\!

Chas Voyager

Amusing

either the Folger or the Kennedy Center. These newbies are exchanged off during conversations, and the Elysium mem- bers pick them apart, asking them compromising questions such as "Do you think the Pontifex would make a good Prince?" or "Which of the Prince's daughters do you think he likes the most and generally amusing themselves. If the newbies are experienced Kindred, then it becomes more of a social event. Pieter Van Dorn almost always attends these outings. A neonate who handles himself well could end up with powerful connections by the end of the night.

The Primogen Council

Members: Cassandra, Chas Voyager, Helena Taylor. Dr. Edward Walker

The primogen, for all its claims to independence, really has very little say in the goings-ons of the city. It meets at Vitel's sufferance. He presents the business to be conducted, and the primogen can do nothing more than advise him on whatever matters he brings to their attention. Indeed, most believe the primogen exists only to provide a cover for Prince Vitel's true dictatorship of the city.

Vitel does listen attentively to everything the council says, not just to hear its opinions but also to gauge what is happening in the city. If the members of the council ever realized just how much the Prince acts on their suggestions. they would begin to manipulate him for their own ends.

As it stands, Cassandra primarily speaks for the city's harpies Chas Voyager assumes the moral high ground of the lot, taking advantage of any opportunity to slam both the Prince and the Pontifex. Helena pretends to speak for her clan, but in fact she schemes to achieve her own personal agenda of which Vitel is well aware. Walker serves as the Prince's mouthpiece.

Art and His Archons

Members: Art Morgan, Tabitha Prester, Dr. Stephen Norton, Pieter Van Dom, Wayland Smith

The leader of the city's Gangrel has his own coterie of so-called Archons. Morgan believes Washington, DC. needs a Justicar to protect the Camarilla's interests, and he's appointed himself to the task. Despite the fact that most of the elders openly scoff at such a suggestion, this pretense is generally tolerated.

Chapter Five: Circles Within Circles

98

ART'S ARCHONS

Tabitha Prester

Loves

Likes

Protects

Likes

Worries About

Pieter Van Dorn

Distrusts/Likes

Warries About

Discounts/Parents

Tolerates

Art Morgan

Trusts

Likes

Hall-trusts

Dr. Stephen Norton

Likes

Likes

Wayland Smith

Art Morgan has gathered a group of younger vampires from the various clans and convinced them to help him police the city. He's always looking for new members, especially from clans not currently represented. Fortunately for Morgan, few of the elders realize this band's effectiveness or the extent of its operations.

Art's Archons, the Artangels or Archangels, stay in constant contact with each other and receive help from the mage Trevor Barron. They normally gather at the Norton Mansion, and conduct clandestine operations against the Setites, Sabbat or any others whom they feel threaten the safety of Washington, D.C

Pieter Van Dom sees himself as a balance against Art Morgan. The two often argue about the tyranny of the Camarilla and the justice of the Anarch Movement. Art takes the position that the best way to fix vampiric society is to reform the Camarilla from within, while Pieter spouts words of revolution. Steve Norton tends to handle opera- tional command and research, as he is able to break into any location he wishes and gather information. Steve takes Art's side in most arguments. Wayland Smith admires Steve Norton, but he respects Pieter's less radical positions.

D. C. by Night

Stephen Norton has convinced himself that Prince Vitel is irreparably evil. He refuses to accept any evidence to the contrary, claiming all of it to be a part of the political machinations of a master con man. Steve intends to depose Marcus, and has no worry about whether Peter Dorfman will become the new Prince. Dr. Norton can't stand to watch the way the Prince manipulates his daughters.

Wayland Smith is new to all of this, but he enjoys having friends that he feels he can trust. Raphael Vega, Wayland's ghoul, often comes to meetings with the Torca dor. Wayland's biggest concem is the Sabbat. He buys into Vitel's rhetoric and likes to recommend missions into Sabhar held sections of Baltimore, in order to take some of the heat off D.C.

Art Morgan does not involve himself in actual mis sions, as do the younger vampires. He keeps himself above all of that, knowing that young neonates can usually get away with more thum elders can. If he were to make any such moves, others would notice and complain.

The Anarchs

Leaders: Velvet, Razor, Pieter Van Dorn

Washington, DC. has always had rebellious elements. While members of the Anarch Movement typically stay in the city for just a short time before they move on or are destroyed, a few have made DC their home. The pank movement is also alive and well in Washington, and al though the punk subculture may not be as loud or as violent as it is in other cities, it is well entrenched.

Velvet claims the title of chief anarch in Northeast D.C. She's not afraid of Marcus Vitel and feels the Prince needs to take a long look at what the Kindred of Washing ton, DC. really need. To her mind, he ought to do away with his high-handed style of rule and discard the upper classes of vampiric society. Velvet doesn't offer any suggestions as to how to maintain the Traditions after the elders vanish, but she follows the teaching of Bakunin, and this is all that would matter should the government go down in flames. The Prince regards Velvet as a mere annoyance, but if she manages to generate enough support to appear as a legiti

mate threat, he intends to destroy her. For now, he finds here amusing. Velvet believes that Razor is a myth created by Prince Vitel.

Razor hopes that Velvet will one day rouse the Prince's anger: he is curious to see what Marcus is capable of when truly irritated. He's tried himself to taunt the Prince, but so far Vitel has kept his cool. Razor would like to recruit Stephen Norton to his cause; however, his blood descen dant is as elusive as he is. Razor believes the best way to promote anarchy is through psychological warfare. He can't stand Pieter Van Dom, whom he considers to be a spineless servant of the elders, used by Dorfman to demonstrate that cut Van Dorn wide open, but he worries that Dr. Norton the Tremere will allow dissenting opinions. Rapor wants to

may be a friend of the South African poet.

Pieter Van Dom tries to play the role of friendly adversary to the Prince, unaware of how precarious his position would be if the Prince took him seriously. Both Helena Taylor and Art Morgan attempt to reason with Pieter to tone down his thetoric, but Pieter feels that he needs a new cause. He's intrigued by Velvet and would like

Razor

ANARCHS

Disregards

Velvet

Pawn

Hates

Dislikes

Intriguing

Hates

Pieter Van Dorn

Chapter Five: Circles Within Circles

PURGATORY REGULARS

Admires

Disregards

Talerates

"Old Fart

Bjorn Garinson

Emilio Gonzalez

Art Morgan

Velvet

Coward

Stomachs

Amusing

Rivalry

Loves

WINES

Parts With

Tabitha Prester

Glenn Courier

to meet her; however, Pieter believes that the mysterious Iris DuMont could be the true leader that the people need. He scoff at what he considers Razor's feeble attempts to achieve anarchy.

The Purgatory Regulars

Members: Bjorn Garinson, Emilio Gonzalez, Velvet. Tabitha Prester, Art Morgan, Glenn Courier

The self-proclaimed underbelly of Washington's Kin- dred community gathers at their own version of Elysium- Purgatory. The ancient Viking, Bjorn, owns Purgatory, and he invites all Kindred to hang there. Ghoul and mortal members of the Purgatory Crew come to party and feed any vampires feeling hungry. Several of them are Blood-Dolls, although they'd wipe the floor up with anyone who dared to call them that.

The main order of the night in Purgatory is to complain about or make fun of the Prince, the Pontifex or the Elysium harpies. A picture of Vitel hangs over the dart board on the

side of the club. Gonzalez likes to talk about how he's going to hurt someone, and Glenn Courier likes to call his blutts. Art Morgan and Bjom almost always go into the back rooms to discuss serious plans, much to the chagrin of the younger Kindred, especially Velvet. Every once in a while, fights Isteak out in Purgatory, but Glenn. Bjom or Velvet can break them up before they get serious. Despite all of the personality conflicts and difficulties, everyone still keeps coming back.

When new faces show up at Purgatory, they get ed a bit. Glenn might ask one to help him test a new chain. An may offer a neonate a cigarette that burns far faster and hotter then tobacco. Emilio may get the neonate to buy drinks for his mortal allies.

If the bur is ever attacked, almost all of the patrons would come to its defense. The local police refuse to respond to calls about Purgatory, unless the violence threatens the other nightclubs or restaurants around it.

100

D.C. by Night

The Gangrel-Nosferatu Alliance

The Gangrel and Nosferatu of Washington, DC. have a much closer relationship than most other Kindred realize The alliance began when Tabitha Prester and George Lawrence set up the Rat Patrol to watch subterranean Washington. The Rar Patrol (maintained through the com bined Animalism disciplines of the clans) reports on the activities of the beings who skulk around beneath Washing- ton, DC. The "leader" of the rats is one of Denge's glauls a very large, intelligent, black rat named Shakespeare. The Rat Patrol carries information back and forth between members of the two clans. In case of extreme danger or emergency, all of the Gangrel and Nosferatu can be notified quickly, and will come to each other's aid if possible.

The organization of the Rat Patrol has brought the two clans close together. When the groups started communicat ing, they realized that they shared a great deal in common. The Gangrel, accustomed to struggling with their own inevitable transformations, turn a blind eye to the horrific appearances of the Nosferatu

Glenn Courier has developed a bit of a crush on Tabitha Prester. He likes to joke with her that she reminds him of a few of the ladies he's cut up. She usually jokes back

that during the period when she was writing her dark poetry, getting cut up by a serial killer was about all she could hope for.

Art Morgan and George Lawrence spend a lot of time

discussing philosophy and more esoteric issues. Coming in halfway through one of their talks can be a bit frightening. They rarely stick to a subject, but segue constantly from one topic to the next.

Art doesn't think much of Nathan. He considers the old rat a coward, a charge that Nathan won't refute in from of Morgan. Nathan believes that Morgan's continued in volvement and his pretensions about being a kinder, gentler Justicar will just lead Clan Gangrel and his Nosferatu toward disaster. Unfortunately for Nathan's status, George has started listening to An Morgan more than the Nosferatu elder.

Politically, the Gangrel and Nosferatu want to main tain the status quo, although they don't like or trust Prince Vitel. Still, they prefer a dictator they know to one they don't. The only issue that the alliance completely disagrees with the Prince about is the matter of the Sabbat Neither George, An, Glenn or Tabitha believe that the Sabbat is as totally evil as the Prince presents them to be. If the oppor tunity arises, the clons intend to begin to dialogue with the Sabbar. However, even Art admits that the idea may bea bat naive and somewhat risky.

Chapter Five: Circles Within Circles

101

The Lupine Connection

The Gangrel and Nosferatu also maintain a secret alliance with the Garou from the Sept of the Awaken ing. The head of the sept, Mother Tamani, prefers to have allies in the city, even if they may have the taint of the Wyrm on them. The Bone Gnawer Ahroun Blood Licker, the head of the Black Rat Pack, receives tips from the Nosferatu about Kindred activity. The Nosferatu allow the Lupines access to the sewertunnels and the metro, and the Gangrel leave them alone in D.C's parks. In exchange, the Lupines help fight off Sahbat packs. In the last few months, strange Shadow Lord Garou have entered the city, and both the Kin- dred and the Lupines from the sept suspect that they may be working for the Sabbat, one of the elders or the Prince. A few whispers have reached both sides that a hive of Black Spiral Dancers has taken root in Washington's extensive underground.

Outside Influences

Too much political power lies within D.C.'s borders for any prince to ignore the city, and elders and Methuselahs all around the world similarly take interest in Washington, DC. Mages and werewolves, too, have a stake in what goes on, as they work to protect sacred sites from development or gain approval and funding for new technologies.

The Camarilla regularly sends Justicars to the city to ensure that neither Prince Vitel nor any other Kin- dred gains too much influence over the capital. It justifies these actions by arguing that too much manipulation of the US government would endanger the Masquerade. The Gangrel Art Morgan reports to Europe on a regular basis, and while the Camarilla doesn't openly recognize Morgan as a Justicar, it nonetheless privately allows him to function as though he were one. It is doubtful that the Camarilla would back him up if a conflict arose between him and Vitel.

The main reason for this is that Camarilla princes from across the world manipulate congressmen and sena- tors. Retainers have positions on many D.C. staffs, albeit usually at low levels. These princes would like to see their cities receive federal funding for various projects. They also want to make certain that laws which could harm the economy of their cities don't pass through Congress

Foreign Kindred often stay near the embassies of their home countries when visiting However, most Kindred across the globe send ghouls to carry out their wishes rather than traveling themselves. Like the domestic princes, they want to keep American money flowing into their domains.

102

D. C. by Night

JASON Six

JF

A few have more pressing agendas, such as getting Ameri- can troops to defend their people or preventing U.S. intervention in an area. Vampires in developing nations are more concerned with Washington than those in economi cally stable countries.

As long as these outside Camarilla Kindred feel they have some influence and control, they will be pleased with Vitel's reign. However, if they begin to feel that they have no ability to affect national decisions which directly influ enced their domains, complaints would soon reach the heads of the Camarilla. If this were to happen, several Camarilla agents would descend upon the city, and Marcus Vitel would come under more scrutiny than ever.

Since the beginning of the Reagan administration, Marcus Vitel has offered his services as a proxy for princes unable to devote the resources to deal with decisions in Washington. Prince Vitel makes these offers only rarely and with the greatest of care. He knows that if the Camarilla decides that he's abusing his power, his reign will end as swiftly as did Marissa's. However, when he succeeds, he wins for himself political influence and gains a boon from an other Prince. Vitel keeps careful track of these boons and holds on to them tightly, spending them only when neces sary, such as during important Conclaves.

The Inconnu has no permanent watcher in DC, for fear that the constant flow of Kindred to the city would put such a monitor at risk. Instead it sends scouts in regularly, and monitors the situation from afar. All the Inconnu wants to do is prevent any of the DC Kindred from drastically changing the course of human events. Ifpush came to shove. the disappearance of a young vampire could easily be blamed on the continuing Camarilla-Sabbat war.

The Sabbat considers Washington of the utmost im portance as well. The Archbishop of New York has enough political acumen to stage rallies and events in the Northeast when he wants Washington to get something done. The Sabbat hopes to capture the city eventually, but until thar time, it relies on Jack and his pack. Indeed, Jack has been able to call on the help of a number of other packs, and Sabbat leaders may soon ask him to become a bishop

Pentes, a powerful megacorporation (found in The Book of the Wyrm for Werewolf: The Apocalypse), has more than a thousand lobbyists working for them in Wash ington, DC. Since Pentex has several hundred subsidiaries and the company's existence is unknown to the national government, few have any idea just how much control a single company has over national politics.

Chapter Five: Circles Within Circles

103

LEIF

one

1995

ONE

STOP

Chapter Six:

Stories of Washington, D.C.

I'm ready

Ready for the gridlock I'm ready

To take it to the street Ready for the shuffle Ready for the Deal Ready to let go Of the steering wheel

I'm ready Ready for the crush

U2, "Zoo Station"

Washington, DC. as a setting is rife with story ideas. Each morning every newspaper in the nation reports on events related to Washington, DC., whether the subject happens to be Congress, the President, the crime rate or an airplane crashing into the White House.

This book doesn't present a fleshed-out chronicle. Instead, what will be found there are encounter concepts, and story and chronicle ideas waiting for a creative troupe to breathe life into them. This book should serve as a source of inspiration for many chronicles to come. Any storyteller can take the encounter, story and chronicle concepts found in this chapter and mold them to fit her particular troupe and style of play.

Elements of Washington, D.C.

•Sirens wall constantly, as police, fire trucks and race off to deal with the latest crises. It doesn't matter where in the city one lives, for these alarms are heard everywhere.

Parking is hard to come by in Washington, D.C. It's not as bad as New York City-afew parking garages and lots do exist-but these fill up quickly and charge high fees. At night, vampires will find spaces near govemment offices, but places where mortals gather will have scant parking in the immediate vicinity. Most people park a few blocks away and then walk a short distance to restaurants and clubs.

Chapter Six: Stories of Washington, D. C.

105

106

D. C. by Night

The cost of living: everything in Washington, DC. is higher than just about anywhere outside of Manhattan. Whether a vampire wishes to purchase clothes, food, or some other necessity, everything is expensive-especially housing. On the positive side, if you look hard enough and have enough money.chances are that you can find anything you want in Washington, D.C.

The very poor and the very rich live within blocks of each other, Just between Union Station and the nearby Greyhound bus station, the neighborhood changes from restaurants, white marble and flags to vacant lots, row houses, garbage and rubble, all within just three or four blocks. The homeless are everywhere in the city, though they tend to cluster near metro stations. Not long ago, a homeless woman died in front of the Housing and Urban Development building.

The influential (this means the elder) vampires do get some perks. They can enter nightclubs without paying the cower charge, and almost never have to buy drinks or pay for parking. Knowing the right people makes everything

much easier.

A lot of people who crowd the metro area are from out of town. Tourists flood the city during the summer months, filling all the hotels and generally looking to take in all the sights. With the recent opening of the Washington conven- tion center downtown, many groups now hold conventions in DC. Also, hundreds of diplomats and their relatives live in Washington for a few years before returning home. Protest rallies and parades draw people from around the country. During a Presidential Inauguration, natives who aren't part of the festivities keep themselves behind closed

doors.

Construction is a constant part of Washington life, whether it be building renovations, road repair, or utility work. This interrupts traffic patterns with a barrage of detours and makes ordinary travel through the city anything but dull.

Monuments, memorials, dedications and inscrip- clons are hidden everywhere in the city, and new ones are being built every day. Almost anywhere you look, especially in Northwest, there's a new plaque or statue.

The underground sections of Washington are enor mous. Secret passages wind between half the government buildings. The DC. sewer system has tunnels so large that it would be possible to drive a pickup truck from one end of the city to the other, all underground. Entrances to the old subway systems, sewers, the metro, etc., are all over the city if one knows where to look for them.

Parks are a common element in Washington: there is a small park on the corner of practically every block. There are so many, in fact, that the residents begin to take these green, picturesque landscapes for granted.

Unlike many cities, Washington doesn't have any skyscrapers. There are a few tall buildings, but most of the business centers are found outside the city in Virginia or Maryland. The center of the District is reserved for govern

ment

Washington is a confusing city in which to live. Even long-time residents make wrong turns, get lost or discover some new road or building within a few miles of their home. To make matters worse, the roads are poorly maintained and street signs change without warning.

Government officials are everywhere. On almost any drive near the government offices, you will pass at least one limousine. Around the Capitol, limes and news crews abound.

Airplanes follow the Potomac River to the National Airport. If you walk along the banks of the Potomac or sit anywhere in Georgetown, you can watch airplane after airplane take off or land. The top of the Watergate offers a tremendous view, but planes constantly fly by overhead. Flying things bigger than a bat generally get shot down if they are anywhere near the Mall or the White House.

Story Seeds

These are all simple encounters that can occur in Washington, DC. to spice up a story or provide an interest- ing subplor

Introductions

The first time characters meet the Kindred of Washing ton, DC., reactions will seem positive. Almost all of the elders are constantly looking for potential allies and pawns. If the characters are obviously "tourists" not planning to stay in the city, the reception will turn cold in short order.

Help, I'm Lost: A small child, Bobby Johnson, comes up to the characters (near the Mall is best) and asks for help. He lost his parents earlier in the day, and he doesn't know where they've gone. For a worst-case scenario, he missed the bus back to his hometown. He needs help and it's dark. Even he knows that Washington isn't safe for kids to wander around at night. This encounter provides an opportunity for characters to regain Humanity and Willpower-or lose it

2\. Cut Off. As the characters drive through the city, a late-model Mercedes cuts them off. Whoever is driving needs to make a Wits+ Drive roll (difficulty 8) and get three successes or else she will go careening into a tree. The Mercedes will stop; but if the characters approach it, it will pull off into the night. The only clue they will have to the driver's identity is the diplomat license plate. If they track down the owner, they will find the embassy of a small but powerful country and a driver who is under the protection of a foreign vampire.

JASON

Chapter Six: Stories of Washington, D. C.

107

3\. Ambassadors Virginia Gould, a Kindred from St. Louis, approaches the characters at either one of the clubs or in Elysium (if stats are needed, use Rachel's from the Toreador section). She starts up idle conversation about dancing, art, music or whatever seems appropriate. Then she starts asking the characters how they'd handle certain difficult social situations, such as a fight between the Black sisters. If the conversation remains pleasant, then Virginia lets the characters know that she is from out of town, and that she represents important interests who have a stake in national affairs. Virginia isn't as concerned with becoming involved in federal politics as with keeping others from becoming involved. She offers to hire the characters on behalf of her prince to serve as monitors and ambassadors for her city. She emphasizes that it would be a great favor to her city, and an opportunity for the neonates to gain status. If they accept, this could become the subject of an entire chronicle.

4\. Hey, Man: The characters are wandering through the city, when a terrible-sounding van pulls up beside them. Art Morgan is inside, holding a street map. He looks over at the characters, "Hey, man, I'm Art Morgan and I'm lost. Can you help me find my way around? I've got a map...." Ar this point, Art gets out of his van and approaches the characters, setting off several angry retorts from motorists backed up behind him. If he's treated well during this test, or if the characters seem at all concemed about the vehicles behind his van, he'll introduce himself as a Justicar of Clan Gangrel and offer to give them a ride to wherever. If they seem decent enough, he'll try to recruit them into his Archons.

5\. Instant Karma: A woman comes hurtling down the street, crying hysterically, Holding her hands over her face, she smashes into one of the characters. She gets up without a word, and it's obvious that her tears are crimson. This is Rachel Evans, and she has just fed off an addict for the third time this week. She's scared and slightly tripped out, making Rotschreck checks for everything. If the characters prevent her from escaping (and she may try to fight) and calm her down, then she'll probably break down in one of the character's arms. For a more exciting introduction, have a character with Auspex notice a Setite ghoul watching Rachel and then following the group

6\. Bum Luck: As a character walks along a street, a homeless person shuffles up to her and asks for money. This is Amos. If the character blows him off, he gets down on his knees and shuffles after them, continuing to beg. He tells a sob story about having no money and suffering on the streets, rejected by his family and society. If a character gives him any money, he'll smile and flash his fangs for a moment. Then, he'll look at the characters and quietly ask them if they ever use the metro. If any of them say yes, he'll give them a pass allowing unlimited rides, then shuffle off. This

JASON

108

D. C. by Night

JASON

will mean the start of a friendship. If the characters attack Amos, he'll defend himself and run off, and they will have made a dangerous enemy.

7\. Help Me, Mister Melissa comes up to one of the characters and begs for help. One of her kitties (Dumpling's a good one: he's an extremely fat feline) was captured by bad animal control people. She wants the character to help her. Regardless of the answer, she starts crying pathetically. If the character leaves, Melissa decides to blackmail them by yelling "vampire, vampire" and pointing at the character. Melissa knows that a little girl yelling vampire is hardly a danger to the Masquerade, but she wants to freak the characters out and get them to help her retrieve her kitty. If the characters agree, then they have to break into an animal shelter to find the abducted feline. Storytellers should take every opportunity to hit sentimental or animal-loving play ers with pathetic animals whimpering on death row. If the kitty is retrieved, then Melissa will be the character's friend forever, and will always come to them whenever she's in trouble-which is frequently: Melissa won't une het own Disciplines in the encounter unless she is forced to.

8\. Room for the Day: A man dressed as a cinematic vampire approaches the characters; those who know D.C. will recognize Dorian Adams. He will invite the neonates to his Castle for tomorrow night. He gives them directions, and tells them in serious tones not to be late. If they go to Castle Adams, then are greeted by mysterious organ music piping from hidden speakers. Dorian welcomes them and spends the evening questioning them about their unlives. He invites the characters to stay in the dungeons for the day, assuring them of the Castle's safety. If the characters stay, then they may earn Dorian's trust. If they decline, he will never repeat the invitation in the future. If the players cultivate a relationship with Dorian, he will eventually break down and tell them about his fears of the Prince.

9\. Writing on the Wall: Razor takes notice of the characters (preferably after they do something exciting) and decides that they would make good anarchs. He tries to wake them up over a period of time, first by writing messages to them on the walls of buildings near their havens or hurting grounds. Rator will watch the characters' reactions when they read the messages. If the players do not notice the graffiti, then Rusor starts attacking them and their mortal associates. When they finally notice, he leaves a half-full spray can next to his graffiti so that they can scrawl a

response.

10\. Malkavian On-line: Washington, DC. has a large phone network, and several computer nodes, making it ideal for Internet users. If any of the characters in the group start accessing the Internet, then it doesn't take long for Scott Levin to encounter them. Scott drops hints about generational conflicts and asks questions like, "Who was Caine in his posts. If the characters send him some e-mail, then Scott (under his Golconda name) will reply quickly.

Chapter Six: Stories of Washington, D. C.

109

The elder will visit the characters' computer using his astral travel and ascertain who they are. If the neonates seem overly reckless or stupid, then Scott tries to manipulate them into doing his dirty work, sabotaging a few of the Prince's and the Pontifex's assets.

Secrets

Most vampires have skeletons in their closers as well as beasts within. Here are a few encounters with the Washing ton Kindred which will give the characters some hints about the games within the games. Many of these encounters will work with Sabbat characters as easily as anarchs or Camarilla

supporters.

1\. The Snake God: As the characters drive or walk through a D.C. park, they notice a group of mortals perform ing some kind of ceremony. These mortals are part of Joseph Fuller's cult If the characters stay and watch, then they witness the Gangrel conducting a ceremony dedicated to the ancient god, Set, in which he sacrifices a young girl. Anyone who makes a Intelligence Occulr roll (difficulty 7) realizes that the ceremony has little to do with actual ancient Egyptian rites

2\. Phantasms: A character glimpses an image of a beautiful woman, who resembles the Black sisters. She's very real-looking and alarmingly close, but when the char acter turra to face her, there is no one there. The hauntings

continue, with the character glimpsing her in mirrors and seeing her in crowds. If he asks around, the description of the woman matches that of former Prince Marissa.

3\. What About Adoption?: Near the monuments one evening, a character encounters Pieter Van Dorn and Angelique Stravinsky, sitting and talking quietly with one another. Angelique keeps asking Pieter what she should do about Wayland. Pieter just shakes his head and tells her that no one has to know. At this point, if the character is not using Obfuscate or being very stealthy, Pieter notices her. His eyes narrow. If the character tries to get away, Pieter uses his Movement of the Mind Path to snag him, then Domi- nate to erase his memories. If the character acts like she did not hear anything and discretely leaves, then she has to worry about Pieter and Angelique watching her nervously in the future.

4\. The Stranger: A character encounters the Prince in an out-of-the-way location, talking with a vampire that she's never seen before. If the character starts to approach. Vitel notices her and the stranger heads away. The charac ter gets a good glimpse of the stranger, and if she can read auras, she may try to do so. The Prince will use his Presence to convince her not to mention this meeting to anyone. Later, during a Sabbat strike by Jack's pack, the character may get a chance to recognize the pack leader.

110

D. C. by Night

5\. Touched by the Black Hand: Cynthia Black takes an interest in one of the characters when she sees her at Elysium. Cynthia lures the neonate away from the other vampires to have a private conversation with her. Once they separate from the rest of the group, Cynthia asks her several questions about her beliefs in Antediluvians, her knowledge of the Sabbat and her opinion of the Prince. If the character responds well, then Cynthia will try to recruit her for the Black Hand. A poor response means that Cynthia giggles and makes the entire incident seem like a joke.

6\. Believe in Magick: The characters notice a mortal stalking them over a period of several nights. She's a beautiful woman with platinum blond hair, who dresses appropriately for the neighborhood in which the characters hang out. If one of the vampires tries to approach her, she flees. Her name is Kayla Dare (if she gets caught), and she's a friend (apprentice) of Trevor Barron. She doesn't deny watching the characters. She'll tell them that they intrigue her. If forced, she'll admit to knowing that they are vam pirca

After a few nights, a man consults with the stalker late one evening. The man then approaches the characters and introduces himself as Trevor Barron, a mage of the Order of Hermes Tradition. Trevor shows the group a picture of Helena Taylor and asks if any of them have seen her. If they answer no, then he and Kayla depart. If they answer yes, Trevor presses them for a location where he could find her.

Trevor may admit that he loves her, but he will probably just say that he is an old friend with some good news for her. Regardless of the outcome, curious characters might seek

out Helena to uncover the rest of this subplos.

7\. Snake's Pit: This encounter works for any character, such as a Nosferatu, who might spend time beneath the streets of Washington, DC. During an otherwise typical night, he comes across a strange set of footprints in the sewer muck. If he tracks them, they lead to a set of tunnels connected to the sewer, and the faint sound of hissing comes from just our of sight Ifthe character investigates further, he stundbles across an entrance to the Setite temple, where Ravenna is performing a ceremony with a number of Fol- lowers of Set from out of town. If the character leaves immediately, he can get out unnoticed. Otherwise...

8\. Music from Beyond: A haunting melody reaches the characters' ears. Chas Voyager is playing a flute nearby, and his eyes flicker with a strange light as the melody unfolds All characters must make a Willpower roll (difficulty 6, Toreador difficulty 8) to avoid being mesmerized by the music. When Chas finishes the piece or a character touches him, he stops and blinks. The light in his eyes vanishes, and he looks a bit confused. He mutters a single word, "Oneau", under his breath. Chas tries to discount the incident. claiming that he felt inspired. Only if the neonates can convince him of their good intentions will he invite them

Chapter Six: Stories of Washington, D. C.

JF

111

to his haven and tell them about his suspicions that he's being used. He demands that they vow not to reveal his secret to anyone before he allows them to leave.

9\. Mimors: During a dance or some chance encounter with Monica Black, have one of the characters make a Perception+ Alertness roll (difficulty 8) and then a Wits+ Occult roll (difficulty 9). If he succeeds, the character looks around at a reflective surface, a nearby car, glass in a picture frame, a well-polished tile floor, a window, etc. and notices that Monica casts no reflection. If he makes less than three successes on both rolls, then Monica notices the neonate making this observation. She will try to lure the neonate away with her, probably "remembering" that the Prince wanted to see him. Then she will use her Dominate disci- pline to remove the memory from his mind.

10\. Hope Eternal: Near the Museum of Natural His- tory, the characters see a motorcycle with a sidecar illegally parked. A black and white ghoul cat meows at them from the sidecar if they approach. Then Dr. Stephen Norton appears from the shadows, with pad and pen in hand. He smiles at the characters, and usks them about their night. Dr. Norton tries to hide the pad, but it's obviously a drawing of the building with several notes, and the word "Hope" scrawled on the top of the page. Unless the characters stop him, Norton drives off. They must decide whether they want to help the thief or ignore the incident and see what happens later.

112

D. C. by Night

Feeding

For many vampires, feeding is the worst part of undead existence. Others enjoy the pleasure of drinking warm blood, and take their time to indulge in the experience. Washington has a large Blood Dolls community whose members regularly share blood, and some clubs cater specifi cally to Blood Dolls, However, other victims may not be what they appear and all sorts of problems can result even if they are.

1\. Out of Order One night, as a character feeds in an alleyway or some relatively accessible location, a morral stumbles upon the grisly scene. To the shock of the vampire, he recognizes the face of a prominent politician, who promptly calls for his bodyguards and tries to flee into the night. No matter what happens, it's a sticky Masquerade situation.

2\. AIDS: The character finishes feeding from a mortal As he leaves, his victim whispers "I have AIDS. I meant to tell you," or something to that effect. While the character may not necessarily infect all she feeds from with the virus, she should make sure if she wants to retain her Humanity. A good variant on this is the hemophiliac victim who keeps bleeding after the character finishes. Those vampires who don't want to make a Humanity check will get stuck in a quandary.

3\. Good Year: The character's chosen victim has ex- tremely potent blood. Soon, the character realizes that her victim is a ghoul, belonging to one of the other vampires in the city, and she's one third of the way to becoming Blood Bound. A variant on this encounter is to have the character find a mortal who has very potent blond, but no other unusual qualities. This can lead to a lot of endless specula tien and worrying.

4\. God Save Us The character readies himself to feed when her victim pulls out a cross and drives her away. Although he's not a hunter, he does have True Faith, and

w knows about vampires.

5\. Murder Most Foul: As the character sinks her fangs into her victim's neck, he has a heart attack and dies. When she checks his wallet, she finds out that he's an important banker and socialite

6\. Feeding Attraction: A member of a character's herd becomes obsessed with her. He starts jealously following her around, taking pictures of her and hiring private investiga- tors to learn more about her. His obsession borders on fatal attraction, and to Blood Bond this psychotic only makes

matters worse

7\. Cracked: The character sinks her fangs into her victim, only to strike something hard and metal. This could be a pacemaker, metal plate or just a steel pin put in years ago to fix an injury. Whatever the type of foreign object, it causes the vampire's fang to crack and snap off in the wound.

In addition to requiring an immediate frenzy check, the Kindred takes one level of damage. If she leaves without getting her fang out, then she runs the risk of endangering the Masquerade.

8\. Wrong Blood Type: A number of genetics corpora tions and medical foundations have research facilities in the D.C area. With so many experimental drugs and patients with rare blood diseases, it isn't always safe to feed. Drugs that may not do much to humans could have drastic side- effects on vampires. The results are limited only to the Storyteller's imagination, and could include burning extra blood poims every day, an increase in Disciplines, or the characters having to spend more blood to heal wounds or activate Disciplines. A greater Blood Pool could also be possible.

9\. Woof: The target of tonight's feeding is a werewolf from the Sept of the Awakening As the vampire starts to feed, the Change begins from man to Crinos (man-wolf form). Unless the neonate escapes or gets help quickly, he will find himself in a dangerous situation

10\. The Rachel Syndrome The Setites, pleased with managing to addict Rachel to their drugs, have decided to test their product on a larger scale. They pumpa human with their mixture and Deninate her into throwing herself at one of the player characters. If he fails to make a Self- Control roll (difficulty 8) after drinking from her, he becomes addicted to the mix. The only way to break him of the habit

FO

Chapter Six: Stories of Washington, D. C.

113

114

D. C. by Night

is to have him go cold turkey for several nights, which will require progressively more difficult Willpower rolls, perhaps beginning at 5 and ending at 10. If the Storyteller desires. another solution could be feeding him a different mixture with similar properties.

Pawns in the Game

The games of the Washington Kindred can get a bit involved. The mortals play the same sorts of games, and sometimes the stress drives people to the edge. Here are a few ideas to keep your players on that edge.

1\. The Sign: A woman, dressed in classic Goth style. saunters up to one of the characters. She smiles and whispers "Wait for the Sign. I can say no more," then heads on her way. A few nights pass and the character encounters her again near the same place. This time she tells him, "Remem- ber the Sign. There are three. I can say no more," then heads on. She'll repeat the last statement every time she encoun ters them in the future. The woman isn't part of any conspiracy, she's just having a bit of fun with the characters.

2\. Odd Discussions: While sitting on the metro, in Elysium or at a club, one of the characters overhears a conversation taking place close by. Several people are having a discussion involving the Kabbalah and the occult. They could be anyone from computer game designers to experts on occult research from one of the universities. They could also be Arcanum members. If the characters decide to remain where they are, then they might learn a few things. They also might be noticed.

3\. High-Level Security: A character finds a suit cour crumpled up in an alley. Inside is a CIA security pass and a set of phone numbers. On the hack of a pad is scrawled "password semper". The phone numbers allow modem ac- cess to the CIA's computer banks, the password lets the characters get inside the CIA boards. The pass gives them access to Langley. These items are extremely dangerous, and Karina Dobson planted them to test the characters' loyalty to the Prince

4\. Set Up: The characters receive a summons signed by the Prince to come to the roof of a building in Foggy Bottom. Shortly after the characters arrive, they notice the Pontifex and an entourage walking on the street below. Another one finds an AK-47, loaded and Iving on the rooftop. Then, gunfire rings out from the floor below, as automatic weapons spray the Pontifex and his guard. The Pontifex survives, though some of his ghouls do not. When the characters try the roof door, it's locked. If they escape. the Prince can prove that he did not send the message, as he always seals messages with wax and uses his signet ring to stamp a personal seal instead of a signature. Furthermore, the signature on the letter isn't his. The Prince will inter- cede for the characters with the Pontifex, but... they owe

him their unlives. If pressed for a perpetrator of this frame, the Prince blames Rator. The truth is that Jack and his Sabbat are behind the assault.

5\. Curiosity: This encounter works best for out-of-town characters visiting Washington, DC. and planning to re- turn home. The group encounters Monica Black, who welcomes them to the city in the name of Prince Vitel. She takes them to the Hotel Washington for introductions, then offers to give them a tour of the city. During the tour, Monica asks them numerous questions about their own city, obviously probing for opportunities to establish her own domain.

6\. Ashes, Ashes: A character passing an orphanage notices that the door is smashed in and blood streaks cover the door frame. A strange glyph is drawn in blood beside the entrance. If they go inside (only wimps or geniuses call the police), they hear the sound of children's voices singing "Ring around the Rosies". They come across 20 young children, all of them with fangs bare and ruby tears on their checks. Jack disguised himself as one of the Camarilla elders and Embraced each child while in one of his psychotic moods, in order to weaken the Camarilla. The characters must decide what to do with these new young vampires, unless they want the Prince to execute them all.

7.I Need You: An occult has learned the truth about the undead. He encounters the characters a few times and watches them. trying to eavesdrop on their conversations After he determines which of them is the most humane, he attempts to approach her alone. The occultist confronts the character with the truth about the Masquerade. He interro- gates her about the value of life, then poses this problem to her. He says that she has the power to give him eternal life, and he knows that she could not stand to have a death on her hands. Then he slashes his throat open. If she leaves, he dies. His wraith might haunt her, or his followers may assume she killed him and hunt her down. If she Embraces him, then she has turned a madman into a vampire, and thus violated the Traditions.

8\. Privileges: The characters are sitting at a table when a waiter comes over and politely asks them to move. He explains that a mistake had been made, and the table was reserved earlier. After the characters move, they overhear the new guests, a powerful lawyer and his wife, thank the waiter for slipping them in on such short notice. The waiter fawns on the couple, and the characters have to scream for service all night. Line cutting in Washington works the

same way.

9\. Lucid Dreams The characters begin to suffer from very realistic dreams during the day. The Storyteller may want to run a dream as if it were a normal game session. without telling the players that it isn't. In these dreams, the characters keep seeing images of former Prince Mariss being slain ar Dumbarton Oaks by Archons, while Marcus Vitel watches. These dreams are sent by Sidney Porter, the

wraith of one of Marissa's ghouls, who wants to avenge his mistress' death. He hopes that the characters will find a way to do his job for him.

10\. What Madness is This?: Cassie locates the charac rers and warns them that she has had a vision of them. She tells them that they are all going to die if they don't take certain precautionary steps. She says that she wants to help. but she fears that the vision might kill her as well. If the characters don't try to convince her to help them, then she volunteers out of the goodness of her immortal soul. Cassie uses her "vision" to get the characters to procure items for her and escort her through Elysium. If they ignore her warnings, they soon learn that there is no threat to their unlives—at least, no more so than usual.

The Masquerade

Threats to the Masquerade are everywhere in Wash- ington. Several situations which could pose potential Masquerade problems are scattered throughout this book. Here are some that could happen anywhere.

1\. Accident Scene: A driver suddenly slams into an other car in the street in front of a character. Then, the guy behind him swerves onto the sidewalk where the character is standing and hits her. Accidents happen, but what does a vampire do when he's hit by a car in public? She may play dead, but getting the body back without causing a major scene can be an incredible headache, Even better is when s doctor or nurse is on the scene and tries to examine the undead victim.

2\. Breathalyzer Test: Cops can get very strict when quotas are low, and in Washington, they are not afraid to pull anyone over (except the diplomats) What happens when a vampire can't fog up a breath mask\! Just remember this rule-friends don't let friends drive frenzied.

3\. Food: A character passes one of Washington's nicer restaurants, attempting to breathe a bit in order to pass off as one of the living, when the smell of fine food overwhelms her. Suddenly, although she's somewhat repelled by the thought, she thinks about how long its been since she had something solid to ear. A Willpower roll may be in order to avoid going in, ordering something, and discovering that the digestive system really is not there anymore.

4\. The Eyes of Children: Unlike adults, many children believe in monsters. If an Obfuscated character gets too confident in her ability to move around unnoticed, one way to take her down a peg is to have a little kid see her. If she's a Nosferatu, the child might scream and point, terrified of the monster. Of course, his parent will reassure him and tell him it's just a light post. A child might approach a Malkavian and try to play with or talk to her.

5\. Flash\!: Every major television network and newspa per has correspondents in Washington. If a story breaks anywhere in the city, a news crew with cameras will be on the scene in mere moments. Even if the characters are just

Chapter Six: Stories of Washington, D. C.

115

going about their nightly business, a news reporter complete with cameraman could come up and start asking their opinions of the current administration, Congress or the mayor. Depending on how they answer, they may get on the 11 pan, or morning news.

6\. Violent Protest: In the World of Darkness, protest movements can get rather ugly. Every cause has at least two sides, and most have more. Characters may find themselves walking through a sudden rally. Imagine a group of vampires caught within a maddened mob near an abortion clinic. Can they stay in control when the mortals around them are all on the verge of frenzy\!

7\. Where's My Card: The DC. metro system is clean and reliable and offers a great alternative to the streets. When a rider enters the system, she buys a farecard and then inserts it in a gate which opens to let her enter. She inserts it into another gate to exit when she leaves the station. If she loses the card after entering the system, then she's effec tively trapped. Station managers can let her out, but that depends on their mood, and the character gets to deal with the embarrassment of explaining the entire situation. Self- Control rolls are in order on this one.

8\. Excuse Me, Mr. President: This is an encounter to use with caution. It should be a reward for players who've done well and who the Storyteller can trust not to abuse the opportunity. While a character is somewhere in the city (a McDonald's mache), seerer service men come inside, prob ably setting off a dozen internal alarms in the Kindred. Then the President of the United States enters and proceeds to shake hands with all the nearby citizens, including the Kindred's cold dead flesh. The President might be surprised at the vampire's hands and inquire about their access to health care, then he quickly moves on. This sort of scene can be done with any celebrity. Because Washington is the site of many award presentations, movie stars, military heroes, retired statesmen and sports heroes can always pop up.

9\. Dogs Many buildings in Washington, DC. include dogs as part of their security system, to sniff for bombs and dep, and the DC police department also employs dog patrols. If one of these canines comes across a vampire without Animalism, it is not going to be happy, harking and growling enough to cause the officers to investigate.

10\. Drive hys: As the vampires are walking through one of Washington's poorer neighborhoods, a station wagon squeals around the comer. They see a gun barrel point out from a half-rolled down window, then a hail of bullets start flying. The Kindred might survive, but people around them will not be so lucky. Furthermore, the hungry may have to take frenzy checks to avoid feeding and killing the wounded

victim

The Weird

A storyteller can develop them into chronicles or just use This section contains a number of different story ideas.

them as asides within an ongoing chronicle.

1\. To Catch a Malkavian: Dr. Stephen Norton has finally done it. He's stolen the Hope Diamond. Word spreads across the city that the diamond must be retrieved at all costs and that the Prince will grant a great boon to anyone who returns the gem. If the characters have e-mail. using his name) telling them that the location of Steve then they may receive a message from Scott Levin (without

Norton is available to any who will not harm him when they try to claim the Hope Diamond. If they don't have e-mail, then they get a phone call from a recording. If the characters agree, they are told to go to the Bethesda Institute of Mental Health. Dr. Granger has Steve in a cell, but he won't surrender his patient. Dr. Norton's in the grip of a Malkavian derangement, openly boasting about his prowess as the world's greatest jewel thief. Steve has hidden the diamond in the padding of his cell.

2\. High Society: The members of the Elysium crowd have decided that they are going to have a neonate night. Helena, Angelique, Monica, Cynthia, Cohn and Cassandra need to bring a neonate to Elysium or lose face. This story provides a good way to get a group of characters together for the first time and introduce them to elder politics. This one works even if the characters are just visiting the city.

Ravenna's blood to their drug injections. Within three 3. The Serpent's Coils: The Setites have started adding

nights, the Setites plan to control hundreds of ghouls. The characters, along with other people in a bar or club, receive one of the new needles (the first one's free). The young Setite casually passing them out uses his Dominate Disci pline to get people to try them. If the characters don't figure out something's going on, then the sudden strength of the new ghouls in the club should alert them. What to do about It is their problem.

Helena Taylor, and after a few tense moments, the fire of their love reignites. Now, the two find themselves in a quandary. Helena can't stay with the Tremere and keep Trevor. The mage won't leave without his love, and his magicks are formidable enough to handle most opponents. If the characters discover the two of them, then they can try to help the lovers or sell them out to the Prince of the Pontifex or whomever.

4\. Who Wants to Live Forever?: Trevor Barron finds

5\. The Marriage of Pieter and Angelique: Fora different sort of relationship story, Pieter and Angelique decide to marry (see Clanbook: Toreador for more details en Kindred marriages). Their wedding draws Kindred from across the country and Europe, each bringing her own agenda. Such a grand event provides an excellent means to foreshadow

116

D. C. by Night

JFO

future disaster, or set up elaborate intrigues, and lets a little hope shine in the lives of two NPCs so that later tragedy cuts all the deeper.

6\. The New Exhibit: The Smithsonian Institution receives a new set of exhibits from Egypt, including a sealed sarcophagus. The Setites decide that they must break into the museum and open the sarcophagus, searching for any thing that has to do with their lost master. Instead they set loose a Bane Mummy, an immortal creature with magical energies. This engine of destruction heads deep into the sewers of Washington, devastating everything in its path. If the Bane Mummy is not returned to its sarcophagus, the vampires of the city will be looking over their shoulders for a long time to come.

7\. Blood Shortage: An ice storm blankets Washington, DC, and unlike many better-prepared cities to the north, the nation's capital is completely paralyzed. Residents stay indoors, shops close and all mortal activity ceases. Life becomes very difficult for Kindred in search of prey, and with lower Blood Pools, frenzies are more likely.

8\. Power Play: Velvet decides that the time for revolu tion is nigh. She starts Embracing her ghouls and sending them out to attack the Prince's agents. Velvet approaches the characters and asks that they join her cause and over- throw the oppressor. If they refuse, then she has her minions arrack the characters so that they won't pose a threat later.

Velvet's forces are hopelessly outmatched, but the charac ters may have a chance to sue for peace with Prince Vitel. The loss of Velvet will leave a void in the Brujah and anarch communities.

9\. Nowhere to Hide: Mages belonging to the Technoc racy-modern wizards who use science to perform their magick-discover the identity of one of the characters after a near-Masquerade violation (any public frenzy will work). They send Terminator-style androids called HIT Marks to eliminate the characters, while their other agents cancel the characters' credit cards and bank accounts and list them as officially dead. The characters will need help to survive and either go into hiding or change their identities. This story works even better as a crossover between Vampire and Mage.

10\. Conclave: Due to Tremere concerns about the Prince's reign and Vitel's thetoric about the Sabbat, a Conclave is called in Washington, DC Art Morgan assists the Justicar (probably Xavier, the Gangrel Justicar) in setting up the Conclave. The event is held in the basement of a large mansion near McLean. The Conclave gives the characters the opportunity to witness vampire politics at its most intense. It also allows them to meet the movers and shakers of Washington society. Although Marcus isn't re- moved from power, he is not granted the authority to

Chapter Six: Stories of Washington, D. C.

117

expand his influence to more politicians in order to protect the Kindred populace. This story makes a good introduction to Washington, D.C.

Chronicle Ideas

The following are some ideas for chronicles set in Washington, DC. Due to its importance on the national scene, Washington makes a great cross-over setting be tween Vampire: The Masquerade and any of the other Storyteller games. Mixed groups can easily find a common goal in preventing mortals from learning the truth about the supernatural world. Also, Sabbat and Camarilla vampires both have vested interests in destroying Prince Vitel.

Spirits of the Fallen

This is a crossover chronicle concept with Wraith: The Oblivion. The spirits of the fallen soldiers buried in Arlington National Cemetery have quietly watched the manipulation of government by the Kindred for years. Each of these warriors died to protect their country, only to watch the vampires taint and corrupt the democracy they de fended. Now, they've organized and decided to strike back. This sudden rising of the dead could also be the result of Giovanni efforts to move into the nation's capital. Vam- pires have prey chased from them, and wraiths start causing

the Kindred to frenzy in the worst situations. A powerful thaumaturgical ritual at Arlington might put the dead to

rest.

Black Rat Attack

This is a crossover mini-chronicle concept for use with Werewolf: The Apocalypse that employs some characters from Caerns: Places of Power. The leader of the Black Rar Pack of Lupines, a warrior named Blood Licker, has become addicted to the taste of vampiric vitae. Unfortunately, Blood Licker is one of the main proponents of the truce between the Garou and the Kindred. During a meeting with George Lawrence, Blood Licker's bloodlust gets the best of him and he and his pack attack the Nosferatu.

The werewolves devour the Nosferatu and the rest of the Black Rats become ghouls. Nathan, in fear, turns to the Prince and the Pontifex for help. Art Morgan and his Archons decide to deal with the problem, but Mother Tamara, the head of the sept, wants the Black Rat pack stopped. Full-scale war looms between werewolf and vam pire in Washington, a conflict that could easily shatter both the Veil and the Masquerade, while a savage group of ghoul werewolves continue their maddened hunt for blood.

118

D. C. by Night

JASON

A Justicar Comes

The Camarilla decides to send a true Justicar into Washington, DC. to investigate the city. The characters could be witnesses to events or directly involved us Archons themselves (see Bloody Hearts: Diablerie England for source material on running an Archons chronicle). With the vast number of secrets and intrigues going on in the city, they will definitely have their hands full. The various forces warring to manipulate a Justicar into destroying her enemies is nearly overwhelming. A variant on this chronicle.com-

cept would be to have Art Morgan become a true Justicar, and turn on Washington, DC. with all the authority of the Camarilla.

The Demons Rise

Dr. Hans Schmidt and his cultists manage to get their hands on a powerful rite, possibly from ancient Essenc documents on demonology recently translated along with the Dead Sea Scrolls. They summon a powerful demon, who takes over the ex-Nazi's body. The demon takes Schmidt's knowledge and immediately has his followers make a series of attacks across the city. After the Kindred population reacts to these threats, the demon realizes that the might of the undead needs to be reckoned with. He locates a powerful talisman like the Hope Diamond or the Ark of the Cov enant in order to gain greater power. Cassie may have a vision of this and then try to tell anyone who she thinks might listen, which could include the characters (for more information on demons in the World of Darkness, see The Storytellers Handbook to the Sabbat).

City Besieged

A group of international Kindred, backed by European Methuselahs, have decided to take control of Washington for themselves, wresting it from the Prince and the other elders. Chas Voyager offers himself as a charismatic leader for the outsiders, and the Prince finds himself under siege The outsiders may not know the city, but their ghouls have diplomatic immunity, and they keep their havens in their heavily guarded national embassies, preventing the ghouls

of the DC vampires from striking at them during the day The characters will have to decide between the Prince and the outsiders. Vitel will be merciless in his attempts to retain control of his city.

The Sabbat War

Washington, DC. stands as a stronghold for the Camarilla against the Sabbat threat. When Baltimore falls

into the hands of the rival sect, Washington becomes a war

zone. The Prince takes advantage of the war to send his

Sabbat after the Toreador (or Purgatory, if it has the chance). Other packs of Sabbat strike inside the District and rumors surface about the Prince's clan. Viel offers ressurces, power and almost anything else to those who drive the Sabbat cut of Washington, DC. He sends Manitelli and several ghouls armed with military surplus into Baltimore to take the war back to the Sabbat. From that point, the conflict escalates until Washington falls or Jack becomes Archbishop of Baltimore due to the elimination of the competition. Char acters could also play Sabbat attempting to liberate the nation's capital, or Sabbat members working for Jack, des perately tom between loyalties

The Rockets' Red Glare

The time has come. The Prince has completed his bunker, and he has filled it with everything he thinks humanity would need to rebuild civilization. Marcus Vitel orders his minions to capture scientists, intellectuals and skilled professionals so he can transform dan an ghouls for his new age. The Prince starts a major purge in Washing ton, attacking the Pontifex and eroding his long-term power base. Then, he tries to get close to the Vice-President to turn him into a ghoul or Dominate him. While this is going on, a chemical is put into the White House water supply to temporarily incapacitate the President. The Prince intends to order the Vice-President to launch America's nuclear arsenal to wipe out the Methuselahs and Antediluvians of Europe and Asia. When the nuclear exchanges end, he will emerge to resculpt a new world from the ashes of the old. Chviously, the plot shouldn't get this far, unless the Story teller wants an extremely hizarre chronicle.

Chapter Six: Stories of Washington, D. C.

119

D

Night

D. C. BY NIGHT

Washington D.C., a city born of the swamps, offers vampires a treasure beyond all measure: power. In this place where even mortals have might once undreamed of, the undead strive to win such influence as their peers elsewhere can but envy. Only the best try; only the most devilish succeed.

fight

The Capitol fears more than just vampiric politics, though. The Kindred gun battles in Southeast; drive off werewolves, mages and others who cover their dominance; and clash with the many vampire hunters who call the city home. D.C. is a dangerous place for the undead, but its rewards outweigh its dangers.

DC. BY NIGHT INCLUDES:

The dark history of Washington D.C.

and the dread vampires who have battled for its treasures;

The many extraordinary sites found in the city,

Enough story seeds to take a troupe in any direction it wants to go.

WHITE WOLF

GAME STUDIO

SUITE 100

780 PARK NORTH BLVD. CLARKSTON, GA 30021

ISBN 1-56504-130-5 WW2210

$18.00

90000

9780565-042257