No test is necessary to use this power. For each turn that you maintain contact with an object, it ages a full year. Using this power reduces wood or organic matter to a rotted morass quickly, and it can weaken even metal or plastic with sufficient time. If you break contact with the object, the accelerated aging ceases. Any decrepitude that you inflict on something is permanent, though.

Although you can age the flesh of a vampire with this power, such a tactic has no functional effect. Vampires do not suffer any changes or decrepitude from this aging, as their supernaturally preserved corpses are immune to such treatment.

Gnarl Wood

Your merest glance can swell or contract wood, or twist it into strange shapes. You need not touch the wood to affect it, only see it.

You can warp up to 50 pounds of wood, rendering it gnarled and useless. This is an excellent way to burst doors, destroy furnishings and twists stakes into uselessness. If you try to gnarl an object held by someone, you must best the individual in a Mental Challenge to warp the wood. You can Gnarl Wood against multiple objects at once, as long as you can see them all and they do not total more than 50 pounds in weight.

INTERMEDIATE HANDS OF DESTRUCTION

Acidic Touch

Mystically altering your vitae, you cause it to become a thick, black, bilious substance, a caustic fluid that burns flesh, cloth, metal and wood alike. Your Acidic Touch has no effect on yourself, but it can leave horrible corroded marks on anything that makes the slightest contact with your coated hands.

The vitriol created with Acidic Touch inflicts aggravated damage, and it can eat through most substances (Storyteller's discretion as to time). You can exude this acid from any part of your body, thus potentially making simple contact or even a kiss painfully deadly. Each application of Acidic Touch does only one health level of damage, so you may need to use this power repeatedly over several turns to burn through a particularly recalcitrant substance (or subject). No test is necessary to use Acidic Touch, though, of course, if you try to strike someone with the acids, you must make the normal Physical Challenge to hit. The acid created with this power is thick and slimy, so it cannot be flung or spat at opponents; you must deliver it by touch.

Atrophy

The warping effects of your powers allow you to wither the very limbs of your opponents. A simple touch is all that is required to Atrophy a single limb, turning it into a useless, fragile husk.

You need to strike your target physically (with a Physical Challenge) in order to Atrophy a limb. If you hit, you wither one arm or leg, rendering it useless. Doing so gives the victim the Negative Traits Clumsy and Lame. Multiple attacks can wither different limbs, cumulatively crippling the victim (and adding additional Negative Traits). A victim without arms cannot grapple or wield weapons; a victim without functional legs cannot move. This effect is permanent on mortals, though vampires can heal a crippled limb as if it were a single aggravated wound.

ADVANCED HANDS OF DESTRUCTION

Turn to Dust

Amplifying the process of decay to incredible speeds, you can reduce your victim to little more than a pile of dust. Mortals almost always die instantly and collapse to putrefied remains, while even vampires are withered.

If you manage to get a firm grip on your victim with a Physical Challenge, you can cause him to turn to dust. Each Physical Trait that you expend afterward causes

Laws of the Night

184

the subject to age 10 years. Mortals aged more than 50 years die instantly, reduced to a mass of liquefied tissue and crumbling bone. Vampires attacked with such ferocity (aged 50 years or more) suffer the Negative Trait Repugnant for the remainder of the evening as their bodies shrivel slightly, but the immortal curse prevents any actual physical harm. Note that Turn to Dust functions only on living or undead targets; use Decay on inanimate subjects.

THAUMATURGICAL RITUALS

Through arcane incantations and properly prepared formulae, the effects of Thaumaturgy can be extended beyond the brief and limited powers of the various paths. Rituals are used to perform such complex tasks.

Rituals rank in difficulty as Basic, Intermediate or Advanced, just like the levels of Thaumaturgy. A character learns one Basic ritual automatically after learning Thaumaturgy. As the vampire's primary path improves, additional rituals are learned, one appropriate to each level gained. Thus, with Advanced Thaumaturgy, the vampire knows at least two Basic rituals, two Intermediate rituals and one Advanced ritual. Learning additional rituals takes time, effort and access to specialized equipment and Influence. A vampire can only learn rituals whose difficulty do not exceed her primary Thaumaturgy path level.

Actually casting a ritual requires the elements and time listed in each individual description, and a Static Mental Challenge on the part of the caster -difficulty of five Traits for Basic power, seven Traits for Intermediate rituals and nine Traits for Advanced magics. Unless otherwise stated, Basic rituals take 10 minutes to cast, Intermediate rituals require 20 minutes and Advanced rituals take 30 minutes.

BASIC THAUMATURGICAL RITUALS

Communicate with Kindred Sire

Tremere vampires often use Communicate with Kindred Sire to seek advice or aid. You need only meditate for half an hour on an object that once belonged to your sire. When you finish the ritual, you establish telepathic communication with your sire, anywhere in the world. This link lasts for 10 minutes.

Defense of the Sacred Haven

Defense of the Sacred Haven blocks the entry of sunlight in a single room. You need only use one Blood Trait as you take an hour to inscribe sigils across all of the doors and windows of the room. As long as you remain in the room, sunlight is prevented mystically from entering the area.

Deflection of Wooden Doom

The wooden stake is the bane of all vampires, but Deflection of Wooden Doom protects against such attacks. You must sit in a circle of wood for a full hour to cast this ritual. When completed, you place a tiny splinter of wood under your tongue. As long as the splinter remains there, or until the next dusk or dawn, you are protected. The first stake to impale your heart mystically crumbles to dust, at which point the ritual ends. The stake must actually enter your body for this ritual to work - a stake simply held near you is unaffected.

Devil's Touch

You can brand a mortal mystically with the Devil's Touch. You need only place a penny on the mortal as you complete this ritual, and until the next dawn, the subject suffers the Negative Social Traits Repugnant and Obnoxious.

The Open Passage

Disciplines

183

Taking an hour to trace a pattern with a Trait of your blood, you can make a barrier insubstantial for a full turn. The barrier itself retains its normal appearance and characteristics, and anything already touching or supported by the barrier when the ritual ends becomes briefly insubstantial with it. With The Open Passage, you can therefore walk through a wall or allow allies to travel through locked doors and similar barriers.

Principal Focus of Vitae Infusion

Concentrating the power of your blood, you cause your own vitae to sink into a small object. With a touch and a mental command, you can later cause this object to break down back into a pool of your own blood. You can imbue an object between the sizes of a dime and a loaf of bread with a single Trait of your own blood, at which time the object becomes slightly reddish and slick. Alternately, you can use the Principal Focus of Vitae Infusion to craft an object of your blood that responds to the touch of another individual, as long as that individual is present during the casting of the ritual. Of course, since your own blood must be used, the subject risks the blood bond.

Scent of the Lupine's Passing

With a mixture of milkweed, wolfsbane and other herbs, you can make a poultice that allows you to sniff out werewolves. The poultice retains its effectiveness for a full scene or hour after its creation; as long as you carry it with you, you can detect Lupines by smell. You must get within five feet of your subject and win a Mental Challenge to determine the Scent of the Lupine's Passing.

Wake with Evening's Freshness

In case of emergencies or if you fear invasion of your haven, you can Wake with Evening's Freshness simply by spreading ashes of burned feathers over your sleeping place while casting this ritual immediately before slumber. Should you be faced with danger, you awaken immediately. For the first two full turns you suffer no penalties for daylight activity (although you can still be injured by sunlight, of course).

Ward versus Ghouls

Spending 10 minutes repeating a warding invocation while pouring a Trait of blood over an object, you shape a mystical glyph that causes extreme pain to any ghoul touching it. The night after you cast the ritual, the ward takes effect, causing a level of lethal damage to any ghoul touching the object (even adding this effect to other damage if, say, a warded sword is used against a ghoul in combat). Any object in size between dagger and door may be warded. You can specifically exclude certain ghouls from the effect if they are present while you cast the ritual and if each donates a Trait of blood to attune the Ward versus Ghouls.

INTERMEDIATE THAUMATURGICAL RITUALS

Bone of Lies

By enchanting a mortal finger bone as a Bone of Lies, you bind the soul of the skeleton to the bone. Then, whenever someone holds the bone, the taint of any lies that they speak is drawn into the finger bone, which blackens it as the spirit within becomes corrupt. The bone must be at least 200 years old, and it must be steeped in at least 10 Traits of blood during the casting of the ritual-all of the blood is mystically absorbed. Thereafter, whenever someone knowingly speaks a lie while holding the bone, it darkens noticeably and forces the subject to speak the truth immediately. Each lie so negated uses one of the Blood Traits in the bone; when all 10 are used, the bone is blackened and useless, home only to a dark spirit twisted by lies.

Incorporeal Passage

By looking into a fragment of a mirror while intoning this chant, you become completely incorporeal. Physical attacks pass through you while you may step unhin- Laws of the Night

180

dered through any solid barrier. You can only move forward or stand still once you invoke Incorporeal Passage-you may not turn or back up. The ritual lasts for the next full hour or scene, but you can end it simply by turning away the piece of mirror that you hold.

Pavis of Foul Presence

To combat the powers of the Presence Discipline, you tie a blue silken cord around your neck while intoning the Pavis of Foul Presence. Until the next sunrise, you are defended against Presence powers. If someone manages to exert a Presence power on you, it is reflected back instead of affecting you. This ritual is completely unknown outside the Tremere clan, who keep it as a powerful secret in their wars of vampiric influence.

Rutor's Hands

The terrifying servant created with Rutor's Hands is actually one of your own severed hands, with one of your eyeballs set atop it\! After casting this ritual, you must cut off your own hand and pluck out your eye, suffering five levels of aggravated damage in the process, in order to complete the spell. (Don't actually inflict physical harm on yourself. Your character does the nasty deed, not you.) The ritual keeps your body parts from crumbling to dust, and it animates them as spies for your use. They follow your mental orders, moving as you direct and allowing you to see and hear whatever they experience. You can create as many as you like, though you must regenerate your hands and eyes fully after each casting before making another set of Rutor's Hands. The spying, scuttling... thing made with this ritual needs a single Trait of blood each week (from any source), or else it crumbles to dust.

You can get cards for your Rutor's Hands, and then use them to spy on other locations. Simply give the card to a Narrator and direct him to a particular location. If the thing is spotted, of course, it is easily destroyed with a single level of damage (it is considered to have three Physical Traits that it can only use to defend itself).

Soul of the Homunculi

Few vampires trust anyone, yet the arcane researches of the Tremere often require capable assistants. A homunculus is a tiny physical replica of the caster, completely loyal and made to serve its master as a spy and aide. Casting the Soul of the Homunculi takes a full month of time outside of play. When completed, the homunculus acts as a tiny extension of yourself. Such creations can resemble tiny winged creatures capable of flight, a legless slug with a human face like its master's, or a small marmosetlike creature with a face resembling its creator. Any given homunculus is completely loyal to its creator, in effect acting as an extra limb. Homunculi have three Physical Traits and two health levels, and they cannot fight. They can spy and report back or perform small tasks. You can only have one homunculus at any given time.

ADVANCED THAUMATURGICAL RITUALS

Blood Contract

By spending three nights in the writing of a contract with your own blood, you create an unbreakable bond between yourself and any one signatory. You use two Blood Traits to make the contract-one to write it, and one for both parties to sign it. The Blood Contract enforces compliance of both parties to the literal terms listed. Should either party break the terms of the contract, the individual immediately suffers enough aggravated health levels of damage to fall into torpor, and this damage cannot be resisted in any way. The only way to finish the contract is to fulfill its terms or to physically burn it.

Nectar of the Bitter Rose

Hidden among the most vile of diablerists, the Nectar of the Bitter Rose breaks the usual constraints of diablerie, allowing multiple vampires to share in the fruits of a victim's power. You must restrain the victim in some fashion while casting this ritual over him. At the ritual's completion, up to five vampires may attempt to gain

Disciplines

187

the benefit of diablerizing the subject. Each would-be diablerist must make a Simple Test (win or tie) to gain the benefits. Nectar of the Bitter Rose does not allow a vampire to gain benefits from diablerizing a victim of weaker or lesser generation-it simply lets multiple people share in a diablerie. Obviously, even the mere knowledge of this ritual is grounds for destruction within the Camarilla.

Umbra Walk

The Tremere powers of Auspex allow them to search sublime planes of conscious- ness, but there are still other levels of existence to the infinite cosmos. Through the power of this ritual, which requires the sacrifice of an intelligent being (almost certainly costing you a Humanity Trait), you enter the Umbra, a spirit reflection of the physical world. You arrive naked, though certain magical items may come with you at the Storyteller's discretion. You can even bring other people, though each additional traveler requires another sacrifice. The Umbra is a dangerous place, traveled by werewolves and unfriendly spirits. Umbra Walk lasts until you choose to step back into the material plane. See Laws of the Wild for more detailed information about the spirit worlds. VICISSITUDE

The Fiends of Eastern Europe harbor twisted secrets that make other vampires shudder. Vicissitude, the signature Discipline of the Tzimisce clan, reflects the inner nature of the most alien of vampires. Through Vicissitude, the wielder can reshape flesh under his very touch, whether into gross deformity or uneathly beauty.

When used on mortals, ghouls, revenants and vampires of weaker generation than the user, Vicissitude's effects are permanent. Vampires of equal or more potent generations can heal back each Vicissitude- inflicted scar as an aggravated wound. Of course, a user of this Discipline can always shape his own flesh as desired.

Nosferatu, Samedi and vampires with similar deformities in their blood always heal back alterations of Vicissitude that attempt to improve their appearances. The Curse of Caine is not so easily circumvented.

Vicissitude uses the Crafts: Body Crafts Ability for retests. Most Vicissitude effects require physical contact and a Physical Challenge as the vampire tears into the flesh of the opponent. Such strikes use Crafts: Body Crafts for retests, instead of Brawl, since the aim is to mutate the flesh. For certain surgical effects, the Storyteller may require some level of Medicine Ability as well.

BASIC VICISSITUDE

Malleable Visage

Bending your flesh under your hands, you can change your own appearance. Malleable Visage allows you to duplicate others or simply make your own surface skin different from your natural forms. Cosmetic changes like alterations of voice or skin tone and build are all possible, though you must actually sculpt the desired changes into your flesh.

Changing yourself with Malleable Visage costs one Blood Trait, and it requires you to spend time reshaping yourself appropriately. If you hope to copy someone else, you must make a Static Mental Challenge, difficulty of the subject's Social Traits, to pull off the disguise, and you still use your own Social Traits in any challenge-you are simply duplicating the person's appearance. You can also afflict yourself with a hideous visage, taking on Repugnant Negative Traits (up to three such additional Traits maximum).

Fleshcraft

Your hands can turn flesh to putty, shaping it like potter's clay. You can perform drastic alterations to the flesh and organs of any creature that you touch.

Laws of the Night

You must touch your victim to use Fleshcraft, pulling or shaping the flesh to your whims. You can reshape flesh on yourself or others within the limits described in Malleable Visage, or you can move around clumps of tissue or simply reduce someone to scarred deformity. These attacks do not inflict damage, but each such strike causes the victim to suffer a Negative Trait of Repugnant (to a maximum of three such Traits from this power). If you alter the distribution of skin, fat and muscle, you can remove one (and only one) of the subject's Physical Traits and replace it with an extra health level, or reverse such an operation.

INTERMEDIATE VICISSITUDE

Bonecraft

Just as you shape flesh with your touch, you can grasp and twist bone, turning it into any desired shape or moving, lengthening, bending or compressing it. Bonecraft lets you literally pull the bone through a subject's flesh, or you can use it with Fleshcraft to completely restructure a victim - or yourself.

Using Bonecraft allows you to remake appearances just like Fleshcraft, but you can also change someone's height or body structure, reshape bone into unusual or spectacular forms, and even make bone spurs and weapons. You must grab the victim, and then twist, pull or bend the bones appropriately. If you do so without exercising Fleshcraft, each such strike causes one level of lethal damage as bones warp and tear their way through flesh. Used in conjunction with Fleshcraft, you can rebuild someone's visage completely, or you can create defensive spines or offensive bone weapons. Such alterations allow the subject to inflict lethal damage with otherwise unarmed attacks.

Horrid Form

Your own body warps and grows into a hideous monstrosity with Horrid Form. Your skin becomes black, rubbery and slimy, while sharp bony spikes protrude from your hands and back. You grow to a full eight feet in height, and you shift into something from a nightmare vision. Those unused to such sights may need to make a Courage test.

Awakening the Horrid Form costs two Blood Traits. You gain the Negative Social Traits Bestial, Feral and Repugnant in this form, but you also gain the Physical Traits Brawny, Dexterous, Enduring, Ferocious, Quick and Stalwart for the duration of the power. You may also not initiate Social Challenges except for the purposes of intimidation. You inflict lethal damage in brawling combat, and you score an extra health level of damage on all such attacks. You may remain in Horrid Form until you decide to change back.

ADVANCED VICISSITUDE

Bloodform

Deliquescing into a puddle of vitae is within your power. You need only concentrate briefly, and you can reduce any of your limbs or body parts into a puddle of your own pure blood.

Each limb (arm, leg, head) that you transform becomes one Blood Trait; your body forms the remainder of your Blood Traits, up to your maximum size. You can change part or all of yourself, as desired. This blood functions in all ways as your own blood, but you retain a level of autonomic control over it. In Bloodform, you can move at a slow walking pace as a puddle of blood, oozing over things and through cracks. Changing body parts back requires only that you be in contact with the blood, or that you regrow your part by expending Blood Traits appropriate to the part (a single Trait to regrow a limb, for instance), in which case the blood that previously formed the piece becomes inert. While fully in Bloodform, you can use mental Disciplines, and you are immune to all physical dangers except fire or sunlight. If all of the blood is imbibed or destroyed while you are in this form, though, you meet Final Death.

Disciplines

(80

Donata had some time to herself.

once Peter and Kevin had both left. She took the opportunity to rearrange some of the statuary. The place wasn't her true haven, but that

didn't that it had to look trashy.

mean

As Donata took down a painting, looking for a better

she played a

in

Over

age oppose

lo

way compose

it with the statuary,

the running plots in her mind. She knew that only the prince had the strength of blood and lo her directly. Warburton would still be set up as the architect of the package deal, and Kristof would owe her for her involvement in stopping the candle ritual. With the major players vanquished, she could move in to conquer their financial and political assets, securing a position that even the prince couldn't dislodge. All she had to do then was get the Warlocks

her corner, and she'd have the run

of the city, even

if the prince kept his hollow title. From outside, Donata recognized the distinctive sound of Peter's car. The expensive engine rumbled slightly before turning off, and with a bit of straining she heard the door slamming shut through the sounds of outside traffic. Adjusting her choker, she waited for Peter's entrance. His footsteps resounded up the stairway; he was in a hurry, doubtless flustered by his failure with the Warlocks.

The door to the opened, and Donata carefully turned one o

of the statues, its eyes mutely regarding the entrance. Peter stood in the doorway for a moment, stiff and angry. but with a monumental effort of self control the wave o

e of rage subsided and his bloodless lips relaxed. Not deigning to remove his sunglasses, he approached Donata with quick steps.

"The Warlock

was dead."

room

Donata masked her surprise. Someone had interfered with her careful web, killing the Tremere before Peter could find him\! Thinking quickly, she decided to work the situation to her advantage. "Of course. It must be Kevin. That vicious creature must have done this to stop you." she glibly suggested.

Peter considered her words for a moment, then shook his head. He calculated the possible motives much like he'd look at profit and loss, surprised at his sudden change of focus. I've thought like this for so long, it's a habit, he realized. I need to turn my skills to new advantage. "I don't think You forced him to love but he had no

reason to think that the Tremere was a

50\.

danger to you.

you.

hand

"Indeed." Donata purred as she wrapped an arm around the statue and around Peter's lie. "But he have

may

seen you as a danger to me. With the Tremere could simply let be seen as

dead, you

me

the architect, with his materials here my property. At least, that's doubtless what he thought."

among

Peter mused over the possibilities. "Perhaps," he thought. And you 're too subtle a liar. I need allies that I can control. "I'll go find him. If he's a problem, I'll deal with him myself." "He mentioned something about a mausoleum," Donata offered. "Probably where his anarch friends play." Go quickly to your demise, she thought, Peter left quickly as he'd arrived.

hear

as

CHAPTER FIVE: RULES, SYSTEMS AND DRAMA

Rules are an integral part of any game; they define what characters can and cannot do. Only when confrontation does occur are rules necessary to govern those situations. Still, the primary focus of this game is to tell a good story.

CHALLENGES

There comes a time when two or more players come into conflicts that cannot be resolved through roleplaying alone. The system detailed in this chapter allows for the resolution of conflicts efficiently and quickly. This sort of face-off is called a challenge, and it makes for a very simple system of conflict resolution. In most cases, a Narrator does not even need to be present when a challenge is played.

Roleplaying does not necessarily have to end when a challenge begins; in fact, roleplaying becomes more important than ever if players intend to enjoy a confron tation and avoid disputes. Experienced players can integrate a challenge into their roleplaying so seamlessly that outsiders don't even know that anything unusual is going on. At the players' option, special hand signals can be used to indicate when certain Traits and powers are being employed.

In order for this system to work, players need to work together. They have to educate each other on the rules and agree on what Traits can be used in a challenge. Compromise and cooperation are the bywords of the game. Arguments over whether or not a particular Trait bid is appropriate wreck both the momentum and the mood of a game.

USING TRAITS

Before you can begin to learn how challenges work, you must first understand what defines a character's capabilities. A character is created by choosing a number of adjectives that describe and define that person as an individual. These adjectives are called Traits, and they are described fully in Chapter Two. These Traits are used to declare challenges against other characters or against static forces represented by a Narrator.

INITIAL BID

A challenge begins with a player "bidding" one of her Traits against her opponent. At the same time, she must declare what the conditions of the challenge are-like firing

Laws of the Night

102

a gun, attacking with a knife or using Dominate. The defender must then decide how she will respond. She can either relent immediately or bid one of her own Traits in response.

When players bid Traits against one another, they may only use Traits that could sensibly be used in that situation. Essentially, this restriction means that a player can usually use only those Traits from the same category as her opponent's Traits. Most challenges are categorized as Physical, Social or Mental, and all Traits used in a challenge must be from the same category. Experienced players may offer each other more creative leeway, but only by mutual agreement.

If the defender relents, she loses the challenge automatically. For example, if she were being attacked, she would suffer a wound. If she matches the challenger's bid, the two immediately go to a test. Those Traits bid are put at risk, as the loser of the test not only loses the challenge, but the Trait she bid as well for the rest of the evening.

TESTING

Once both parties involved in a challenge have bid a Trait, they engage in a test immediately. The test itself is not what you may think-the outcome is random, but no cards or dice are used. The two players face off against one another by playing Rock-Paper-Scissors.

If you lose the test, you lose the Trait you bid for the duration of the session (usually the rest of the evening). Essentially, you have lost some confidence in your own capabilities and can't call on them for a while. You can no longer use that Trait effectively, at least until you regain confidence in your Traits.

The test works like the moment in poker when the cards are turned over and the winner is declared. The test produces one of two possible outcomes-either one player is the victor, or the result is a tie.

In the case of a tie, the players must then reveal the number of Traits that they currently have available in the category used (Physical, Social or Mental). The player with the least number of Traits loses the test and therefore loses the challenge. Note that the number of Traits you've lost in previous challenges, or lost for any other reason, reduces the maximum number of Traits you can bid in ties. You may lie about the number of Traits you possess, but only by declaring fewer Traits than you actually have-you may never say that you have more Traits than you actually do. Doing so allows you to keep the actual number of Traits you possess a secret, although doing so may be risky. The challenger is always the first to declare his number of Traits. If both players declare the same number of Traits, then the challenge is a draw, and both players lose the Traits they bid.

Example of Play: Sam, Brujah musician, is caught in a battle with Juan, a fearsome assassin. Knowing his only hope is to come out swinging, Sam begins with an aggressive Trait for his initial bid ("I take a Ferocious swipe at you with my guitar\!"), and the Assamite responds in kind ("Feel the power of my Brutal strike, infidel\!"). The two test-both shoot Rock, a tie. Now they have to declare their total number of Traits to resolve the tie. Sam knows he'll need all he's got, so he declares all nine Traits he has available. Juan has only eight traits, and so he loses the challenge. The Assamite loses the Trait he bid, suffers a health level of damage and begins to wonder if this is really such a mismatch after all.

ROCK PAPER SCISSORS

What we mean by Rock-Paper-Scissors is the following: You and another person face off, and, on the count of three, you show one of three hand gestures. "Rock" is a basic fist. "Paper" is just a flat hand. "Scissors" is represented by sticking out two fingers. You then compare the two gestures to determine the winner. Rock crushes Scissors. Scissors cuts Paper. Paper covers Rock. Identical signs indicate a tie. Certain advanced powers allow some characters to use gestures other than Rock, Paper and Scissors. Before players can use the gestures in a test, however, they must explain what they are and how they are used.

Rules. Systems and Drama

193

ADJUDICATION

If you have question or argument about the rules or the conditions of a challenge, you need to find a Narrator to make a judgment. Try to remain in character while you look for a Narrator. Any interruption in the progress of the story should be avoided if at all possible, so work problems out with other players if you can. If you do not know the correct application of a certain rule, it's usually better to wing it rather than interrupt the flow of the game.

It should be noted that a challenger who fails on a Social or Mental Challenge must wait at least five real-time minutes (and not spend them arguing over the results of the previous challenge-you can't protest a ruling with a Narrator for 4:58, then drop your argument and say, "Oh look, time's up,") before repeating the failed challenge. This rule includes supernatural powers that use Mental or Social Chal- lenges unless they specify otherwise-a character cannot continue attempting one Mesmerism after another until he finally succeeds. This stricture does not include trials that are failed but then redeemed through retests or overbids. COMPLICATIONS

There are a number of ways in which a challenge can be made more compli cated. The basic rules are enough to resolve most disputes, but the following rules add a few bells and whistles.

NEGATIVE TRAITS

Many characters have Negative Traits, Traits that can be used against a character by his opponent. During the initial bid of any challenge, after you have each bid one Trait, you can call out a Negative Trait that you believe your opponent possesses. If he does indeed possess the Negative Trait, your opponent is forced to bid an additional Trait, although you must still risk your one Trait as usual. If he does not possess that Negative Trait, you must risk an additional Trait. You may call out as many Negative Traits as you wish during the initial bid phase of a challenge, as long as you can pay the price for being wrong.

If your opponent does not have additional Traits to bid, then your Trait is not at risk during the challenge. Additionally if you guess more than one Negative Trait that your opponent cannot match, you gain that many additional Traits in the case of a tie or an overbid (see below). The same works in reverse, favoring your opponent if you do not have additional Traits remaining to match incorrect Negative Trait guesses. It is considered very cheap to list off which Negative Traits a player might possess, if you have no valid reason to suspect as much in-game.

Example of Play: Joshua the Gangrel is attacking Marsilio, a Toreador socialite. He begins with his initial bid ("I make a Ferocious attack with my claws\!") while Marsilio attempts to escape ("I'm too Quick for you to catch so easily"). Joshua then suggests that Marsilio possesses the Negative Trait Lethargic ("All those Elysium parties have made you too Lethargic to get away"). If Marsilio did indeed possess that Negative Trait, he would have to bid an additional Trait to have continue the challenge. However, the Toreador does not possess the Lethargic Trait, and now Joshua having underestimated his opposition-is the one who has to bid an extra Trait if he wishes to continue trying to capture his prey It can be risky to bid Negative Traits, but if you're sure about what you're doing. you can raise the stakes for your opponent, possibly even to the point where she relents rather than risking additional Traits.

OVERBIDDING

Overbidding is the system by which powerful characters may prevail in a challenge, even if they lose the initial test. Armand the elder with 16 Physical Traits should be able to crush Phil the neonate who has only three. This system is designed to make that possible. Once a test has been made, the loser has the option of calling for an "overbid." In order to call an overbid, you must risk a new Trait; the original one has already been

Laws of the Night

194

lost. At this point, the two players must reveal the number of applicable Traits they possess in the appropriate category, starting with the player who called for the overbid. If you have double the number of Traits as your opponent in that category, you may attempt another test. As with a tie, you may state a number of Traits less than the actual number you have and keep your true power secret. Overbidding can be dangerous unless you are confident in your estimation of your opponent's abilities.

Example of Play: Favian, Setite manipulator, is attempting to coax information from his pawn Endora. He begins with flattery ("My praise is so Beguiling that you have no choice but to tell me what I want to know"), but she resists ("I'm too Dignified to be so easily won over"). They test and Endora wins, but Favian is far from thwarted. Gambling that he has more social aptitude than the studious Tremere, Favian bids an additional Trait ("I'm ever so Seductive when it comes to getting what I want") and calls for an overbid. Endora, being the defender, does not need to risk an additional trait. Favian announces all 14 of his Social Traits, while Endora admits that she has only five, and so the overbid proceeds. They test again, and this time Favian wins. Endora loses the Dignified Trait she bid, and Favian still loses his initial Beguiling Trait, but he has won the final challenge and so she must divulge the information he was seeking.

STATIC CHALLENGES

Sometimes you may have to undergo a challenge against a Narrator rather than against another player. For example, a hacker may use a Static Mental Challenge with the Computer Ability to break into another computer system. In such circumstances, you bid a Trait that would be appropriate, then perform a test against the Narrator. Before the test is made, the Narrator decides on the difficulty of the task which you are attempting this is the number of Traits you are bidding against, which is used to compare in the event of a tie. The test proceeds exactly as it would if you were testing against another character. Of course, you may attempt to overbid in a Static Challenge, but beware, because the Narrator can overbid as well. The number of Traits attached to the challenge should represent the difficulty and danger inherent in the challenge.

Sometimes Narrators may leave notes on objects, such as books, doors or even magical items. These notes indicate the type of challenges that must be won for something to occur (such as deciphering a tome or picking a lock).

SIMPLE TESTS

Simple Tests are used to determine if you can do something successfully when there is no real opposition. Simple Tests are often used when using Disciplines. Most Simple Tests do not require you to risk or bid Traits, though some may.

When a Simple Test is called, a test (Rock-Paper-Scissors) is performed against a Narrator. In most cases, the player succeeds on a win or a tie, although in some cases, it may be necessary for the player to win for him to receive any benefit from the challenge.

RETESTS

Certain Traits allow a character to retest. A retest allows a character to ignore the results of the first test and test again for a new result. Retests are most commonly gained through Abilities, but other Traits may also provide them; such Traits are noted in their descriptions. Generally, expending one level of an appropriate Ability allows for one retest.

Multiple retests are possible on a single challenge, but each retest must come from a different source. A character may retest a challenge once using a level of Brawl and then retest again through the Merit: Lucky, but he may not gain multiple retests with the Brawl Ability on the same challenge.

Retests may be canceled ("blocked") by a character who is capable of matching the conditions of the retest. Thus, if a player uses Firearms to retest when firing a gun, the opponent may expend a level of Dodge to block the retest and force the attacker to accept the results of the original test.

Rules. Systems and Drama

195

Example of Play: Michael, a Sabbat recruiter, is holding Daron hostage and subjecting her to an earful of sect propaganda. Reacting with typical Brujah composure, Daron pulls a hidden pistol and attacks ("I use the advantage my Wily plan has given me to shoot you in the chest\!") Michael responds by trying to take cover ("I use my Quick reflexes to spring behind the couch."). They perform a test, and Daron loses. However, Daron is an excellent shot ("I am too skilled at Firearms to let you get away that easily\!"), and she calls for a retest. The two test again, and Daron wins. Michael suffers damage from the gunshot wound.

Michael tries to recover by knocking Daron's gun away ("Dexterous as ever, I yank the gun from your grasp."). Daron responds by backing away, the better to set up another shot ("I'm too Nimble for you to get a hold of\!"), and the two perform another test. Michael loses and immediately calls for a retest with Brawl ("My Brawl skill is good enough to grab a gun at close range\!"). Daron blocks the retest with Dodge ("I Dodge out of the way before you have a chance\!"), and no retest is performed. Daron is now out of Michael's reach and ready to shoot again.

RELENTING

At any time before the actual test is performed, a player may choose to acquiesce and admit defeat. Characters who relent lose the challenge automatically, but they do not lose any Traits, even if they bid one before relenting. They also help the game flow along more smoothly than extended Rock-Paper-Scissors matches do.

BONUS TRAITS

Certain weapons and special powers grant a character bonus Traits during a challenge. You may add these extra Traits toward a character's total when determin- ing a tie involving that weapon or special Ability.

ORDER OF CHALLENGES

Since multiple challenges will inevitably occur simultaneously during any given fight, occasionally the Narrator needs some means of determining who acts first and who acts last. Each person involved in a given game turn checks the current number of Traits appropriate to the action he wishes to attempt. A character punching someone would use Physical Traits to determine speed, while a character casting a spell would probably use Mental Traits. If an action does not require any sort of Trait challenge, it occurs last in the turn. As with overbidding, you may declare fewer Traits than you possess if you wish. Characters with equal numbers of Traits are assumed to go "simultaneously," though for resolution purposes the Narrator may simply choose one to act first.

Sometimes a character with a high number of Traits will attack a character with fewer Traits, who will decide to strike back. In this case, the character with fewer Traits resolves his action in the same test as the faster character, but in doing so, he loses the ability to take any aggressive action for the turn-he uses up his one action with the counterattack.

This rule can occasionally cause as much confusion as it's trying to solve, and the Narrator may choose to apply this only when there a debate or other critical need to establish who's going first.

Example of Play: Michael and Daron are still locked in combat, and Michaeldecides his only chance is to dive out the side door and try to get away. Unfortunately for Michael, Daron's friend Shane has also broken free of his bonds and is attempting to block his escape. Michael has five Physical Traits left, and Shane has his full eight Traits. Shane pounces in front of Michael ("I'm too Stalwart for you to get by me\!"), and Michael decides he'll try to counter by knocking the stubbom Gangrel down ("I fetch you a Ferocious smash across the knees\!"). They performa test, and Shane loses; he suffers a wound from the attack and is knocked aside. However, Michaelcannotescape yet he'suseduphis action this tum by striking Shane. Meanwhile, Daron declares that for her action she'll move to a better position for next tum. THE MOB SCENE

It's a fact of life that sooner or later a large group of characters will decide to mix it up. Group challenges can seem intimidating even to experienced Narrators and

Laws of the Night

190

Storytellers; these rules are meant to streamline the process and make such situations easier to resolve, rather than devolving into endless matches of Rock-Paper-Scissors.

First of all, find who is challenging whom. The easiest way is to count to three and have everyone point to the person they wish to target that turn. If no one is being challenged by more than one person, then challenges are carried out normally.

If one character is challenged by several targets, or tries to challenge multiple opponents at once, resolve it in the following manner. First deal with groups in the order of largest to smallest, just for ease of play. Each attacker must bid an appropriate Trait as normal for the challenge required; logistics put a limit of up to five characters attacking another character at once.

Next, the defender character must bid enough Traits to counter every opponent in the group; if he does not have enough Traits, he must relent to the rest of his opponents (although he may choose which ones he relents to). Resolve such relented challenges first - it is very possible the defender may fall before the rest of the group can act\!

Finally, the defender and any remaining attackers engage in one simultaneous test. The defender then compares his sign to each of the attacker's signs, applying the appropriate results. Thus, if the defending character throws Scissors and his attackers throw Rock, Scissors, Paper and Paper, the defender is considered to have lost to the first challenger, tied the second (resolved like any other tie) and beaten the last two. The defenders and attackers lose Traits bid in any given loss. If the defender in the previous example had bid one Trait against every attacker, he would have lost one Trait to the first attacker, and an additional Trait if he had lost the tie as well.

Once the tests have been made, they are resolved in the standard order of actions and initiative. It is possible for a defender to lose Traits to the first attackers and then lose a tie to an attacker later in the same mob challenge. That's OK-the first attackers "softened up" the defender. However, unless the defender has a special power which allows him to take multiple actions, he may only attempt to injure one of his attackers, and it must be one who lost a challenge. If none of the attackers lose, the defender simply suffers the results of their actions.

When the defender in a mob challenge uses Abilities or other powers to gain retests, each attacker's challenge is treated as a separate test. Thus, a defender would need five Melee Traits in order to retest against five attackers in a melee combat.

TIME

Time in Mind's Eye Theatre works as it does in real life. It moves forward inexorably, relentlessly. For the most part, everything is played out in real time, and players are expected to stay in character unless they have a rules question.

It is assumed that a player is always "in character" during the course of a story. A player should never drop character when interacting with other players. Doing so ruins the atmosphere for everyone involved. Challenges may be talked through, but a player is always considered to be active in the game. If a player needs to take a break, he should inform a Narrator. That player should not interact with any of the other players while out of character.

The only other exception to the "in-character rule" is when a Narrator calls for

a "timeout." This call may be necessary to resolve a dispute or to change the scene if the story calls for it. When "Timeout\!" is called, all players within hearing distance must stop whatever they are doing until the Narrator calls out, "Resume" or "Lay on\!" Timeouts should be kept to a minimum, since they interrupt the flow of the story.

CHRONICLES, STORIES, SESSIONS AND SCENES

Mind's Eye Theatre time breaks down into five major allotments: chronicles, stories, sessions, scenes and turns. A chronicle is defined as a series of smaller stories that are all connected somehow, and which may take months or even years to complete. Each Rules, Systems and Drama

197

complete plotline within the chronicle is called a story. A session is just that: one actual night of play, although Storytellers may define a session as one night of game time if the action was left in media res at the end of the previous game. (Since many characters regain spent Traits in between sessions, this distinction can be important.) Finally, a scene is the amount of time it takes to resolve the action in one location; once the characters shift locations, the scene has ended. If a session will be taking place entirely at one location, a scene can then be defined as roughly one hour.

TURNS

To keep everything straight when players start throwing challenges around or attempting complex actions, the time is right to start using turns. Turns are considered to last about four seconds, although this measure may vary from challenge to challenge at the Storyteller's discretion. In any given turn, a character may take one action. Some actions may take multiple turns to complete, such as hacking a sophisticated computer system. Other actions, like speaking a short sentence, do not use up a character's turn at all. Once everyone involved in a turn has taken an action, the turn ends and another turn begins.

In some instances a character may be interrupted before he can take his action, or be forced to respond to events developing around him. In such instances, a character may always defend himself, although doing so uses up his available action for the turn.

If a power affects a character for 15 seconds, it is assumed to be in effect for four turns when turn-based time is in effect. In normal roleplaying, such powers work for their allotted amount of time..

DOWNTIME

Many aspects of a character's unlife are critical to her continued existence, yet they do not make for dramatic roleplaying, or they are too intricate to take time during sessions to perform. Storytellers are encouraged to use "downtime" between sessions to allow characters to maintain their holdings, learn Disciplines and see to other facets of their existence. Other actions and interactions may take place during this time, with Storyteller supervision. As long as players don't use abuse downtime privileges, the time between sessions can be a rewarding roleplaying experience in itself. HEALTH

A character in a Masquerade game has different health levels that represent the amount of injury the character can endure. These levels include: Healthy, Healthy, Bruised, Bruised, Bruised, Wounded, Wounded, Incapacitated, Torpor and/or Final Death. If a Healthy character loses two health levels from a combat challenge, she becomes Bruised. If she loses three more health levels, she becomes Wounded, and so on. Healthy-When a character is Healthy, he is virtually or completely uninjured. He suffers no penalty aside from possibly being cosmetically scuffed up a bit.

Bruised-A Bruised character is more seriously roughed up, and his injuries have started to impair his viability a bit. He is considered one Trait down on all tied challenges.

Wounded-When a character is Wounded, he is seriously injured in one or more locations. To reflect this injury, he must risk an additional Trait to attempt a challenge, and his opponent wins all ties, regardless of who has more Traits. If the injured character has a power which normally allows him to win all ties, ties are resolved through comparing Traits instead. Note: a character may always attempt to overbid.

Incapacitated-When a character is Incapacitated, he is completely out of play for at least 10 minutes. Once awake, the character is still effectively immobile, although he may whisper pained sentences. He may not enter into challenges until he has healed at least one health level. He is at the mercy of other characters, and he may do nothing more than heal himself. Kindred suffer Final Death if they suffer aggravated wounds at this point.

Lives of the Night

198

Torpor-Kindred who are injured beyond Incapacitated by lethal damage fall into a deathlike sleep known as torpor.

• Final Death-Kindred injured beyond Incapacitated by aggravated damage do not enter Torpor, but are permanently destroyed instead.

Example of Play: Dracos is caught in a Sabbat ambush. His first attacker kicks him for one level of bashing damage, putting him at his second Healthy level. Another assailant shoots him for two levels of lethal damage, dropping him to his second Bruised level. Lucky as ever, the next turn Dracos is shot again, suffering another two health levels and falling to his first Wounded level. A Sabbat with Potence and a knife slashes him viciously as he tries to escape, inflicting two health levels of lethal damage and reducing him to Incapacitated. Dracos falls to the ground, helpless, and he is now at the mercy of his attackers. If he takes any more lethal damage, he will enter torpor; if he suffers aggravated damage, however, he will suffer Final Death instead. (Further bashing damage will merely render him unconscious for a while.)

Товров

Characters may enter torpor voluntarily or involuntarily (through wounds or other means). Once in torpor, the character remains dormant for an amount of time dependent on her Humanity rating, or until another Kindred gives her blood to revive her. Characters with no Blood Traits lose a health level each time the rules call for them to spend blood, such as rising each night; once the character falls below Incapacitated in this fashion, she enters torpor. Vampires who enter torpor due to blood loss or wounds must rest the entire time required by the following chart, barring some exceptional circumstance (Storyteller's discretion).

Following this period of rest, the character may make a Static Mental Challenge against three Traits and expend a Blood Trait to wake up. Failure means the Kindred may test again once per night until she succeeds or runs out of Blood Traits. If she has no blood, she may not rise until some is given to her.

A character who enters torpor voluntarily falls into a slumber similar to her daily rest, but it is, in fact, far deeper, and it should not be entered lightly. Voluntary sleepers may awaken in half the time usually required by the chart, although they still need to make a Static Mental Challenge to do so. Torpid vampires ignore the nightly need for blood-they are effectively in hibernation for the time they remain in that state.

Humanity Traits

5

4

3

2

1

0

HEALING

Length of Torpor Two days One week

One year One decade

One Century Millennium

Vampires are dead and unable heal wounds naturally. Only by utilizing their blood can they repair damage to themselves. One Blood Trait spent heals one health level of lethal damage, or two health levels of bashing damage. This process can be performed at the same time other actions are performed, even alongside Discipline use.

BASHING LETHAL DAMAGE

Some types of damage are more dangerous than others: a punch to the jaw is less likely to kill than a knife wound. Bashing damage is defined as any injury which is painful but fades relatively quickly, such as kicks, punches or tackles. Lethal damage (from bullets, swords,

Rules, Systems and Drama

190

knives, etc.) is intended to kill, and it takes mortals a long time to heal. The Narrator is the final arbiter of what counts as bashing or lethal damage. Characters put below Incapacitated by bashing damage are rendered unconscious for one scene/ hour (although the Narrator may rule that they are put in torpor or killed if the beating is fierce enough); mortal creatures pushed past Incapacitated by lethal damage simply die, while vampires enter torpor instead.

Because their corpselike bodies simply don't bruise and break like those of the kine, Cainites halve all bashing damage received, round down (minimum one level of damage inflicted).

AGGRAVATED WOUNDS

Wounds that are beyond the normal bounds of even the Kindred's unnatural healing powers are called aggravated wounds. Such wounds are usually caused by injury from fire, sunlight or the teeth and claws of a supernatural creature. A Narrator can also deem any other injury to be aggravated, depending on the circumstances. Three Blood Traits, a Willpower Trait and a night of rest are required to heal one level of aggravated damage.

Sunlight

Exposure to sunlight is extremely painful for vampires. Indirect sunlight such as through thick curtains or heavy cloud cover causes one automatic aggravated wound per turn of exposure, while direct sunlight causes three automatic levels of aggravated damage per turn. (Heavy clothing may provide some protection, at the Storyteller's discretion.) Vampires confronted by sunlight must also make a Static Courage Challenge or suffer Rötschreck.

Fire

Vampires fear and loathe fire, and its slightest touch causes them great agony. Most vampires are extremely uncomfortable around open flame, since it is one of the few things that can destroy them permanently. In game terms, all wounds inflicted by normal or magical fires do aggravated damage to Kindred, and sufficiently large sources of flame will inevitably provoke a Courage Test to avoid Rötschreck. A character on fire must win or tie a Simple Test and spend one action dousing the flames.

COMBAT

Combat is the usual intent behind Physical Challenges. Essentially, combat involves two characters in physical conflict. The players agree what the outcome of the challenge will be, each player bids an appropriate Trait and a test is performed to determine the victor. The following section allows for variations on those basic rules, such as situations using surprise or weapons.

The agreed outcome of a Physical Challenge is often the loser being injured. This is not the only possible result, though. The two parties can agree to nearly anything, whether it's tripping an opponent or throwing him out of a window. The results of a combat challenge may also be different for both participants; for example, if a frenzied Malkavian is trying to tear apart a fleeing mortal, the mortal might try to get away from his opponent instead of hurting her. SURPRISE

If a player does not respond within three seconds of the declaration of a Physical Challenge, the character is considered to have been surprised-he is not fully prepared for what's coming. Sometimes a player is busy with another activity or is playing a character who just isn't prepared for the attack. Any player who sneaks around whispering challenges to get the element of surprise is cheating, plain and simple.

Surprise simply means that the outcome of the first challenge in a fight can only harm the surprised defender, not the challenger. For instance, if a player did not respond in time to an attack, but still won the challenge, the challenger would not be injured. Furthermore, if the challenger loses the test, she may call for a second challenge by risking another Trait. After this second challenge, regular challenge rules resume. Överbidding is permitted for both challenger and challenged in surprise situations.

Laws of the Night

MOVEMENTIN COMBAT

Three Step Rule

Anyone in or just entering combat is subject to the "three step rule." You may take up to three steps during any combat action and still attack. Moving one step is considered walking cautiously, two steps is moving directly (down one Trait in Physical Challenges), and three steps is running (also down a Trait in Physical Challenges). A Discipline that allows for an additional action would allow you to take three additional steps, and so on. FAIR ESCAPE

Fair Escape is a simple rule which allows players to escape from potentially dangerous situations without actually bounding over furniture or diving out of windows. This rule also allows players to avoid combat without going through cumbersome challenges to see if they can "get away."

When you use this rule, you can call "Fair Escape\!" any time you see another player approaching with whom you do not wish to interact. Once you call "Fair Escape," you may leave the area without being pursued. There are several guidelines. which must be followed when using this rule, however:

You may not use the Fair Escape rule if the person approaching is nearby (within conversational distance). In such cases, you must initiate a challenge in order to flee. Use common sense in places where there is a great deal of noise and conversational distance is reduced to a minimum (e.g., a crowded nightclub).

Situations which involve an ambush (all exits blocked or the target is surrounded) or ranged weapons can sometimes negate the use of Fair Escape. Again, use common sense. A character using Unseen Presence or similar powers may employ a Fair Escape at any time before a challenge has been initiated, unless someone with some form of Heightened Senses counters him.

Characters with supernatural speed such as Celerity may gain a Fair Escape by activating their speed before a challenge is initiated. In the case of two characters using supernatural speed, whoever uses the highest level of speed wins (all ties go to the fleeing party). Thus, a character using Basic Celerity cannot Fair Escape from a foe using Advanced Celerity.

These rules are meant to hasten play, not complicate it. Always try to employ common sense when using Fair Escape. (As a rule of thumb, if it takes several minutes to explain why a Fair Escape would be justified, it probably isn't.)

WEAPONS

For obvious reasons, no real weapons are ever allowed in Mind's Eye Theatre games. Even nonfunctional props are forbidden if they can be mistaken for weapons. This system does not use props of any kind, nor are players required (or allowed) to strike one another. Instead, characters should use weapon cards, which display the Traits and pertinent details of a particular weapon.

A weapon gives its wielder extra Traits for combat or other appropriate challenges. Sometimes this advantage is offset by a disadvantage in terms of a Negative Trait. Each weapon has one to six extra Traits that may be used in any challenge in which the weapon is employed. These Traits cannot be used as an initial bid. Instead, they add to the user's total when she is comparing Traits. In addition, some weapons have special abilities that may be used, such as causing extra levels of damage or affecting more than one target.

Statistics for weapons are written on cards and carried along with your character card. Weapon cards specify the capacities of each weapon and allow other players to see that you actually possess a weapon. When you have a weapon card in your hand, you are considered to be holding the weapon.

Rules. Systems and Drama

201

Some weapons have Negative Traits that can be used by the wielder's opponent in precisely the same way as regular Negative Traits. The weapon's Negative Traits can only be used against the wielder of that weapon. Negative Traits for a weapon must be appropriate to the situation. For instance, if you are firing a pistol and your opponent wants to use the gun's Negative Trait Loud against you, that Negative Trait could be ignored if you have a silencer on the gun.

Concealability

Each weapon has a concealability rating. If the weapon is not concealable, or if you do not have the proper amount of clothing or cover to conceal it, you must have that card on display at all times. You cannot, for example, pull a broadsword out of your pocket. Instead, you must carry that card in hand at all times or, optionally, you could pin the card to your shirt, indicating that the sword is slung over your shoulder.

Availability

Serious firearms and archaic melee weapons can take some time to locate. Firearms also require permits to obtain, which involves undergoing background checks or waiting- periods in some areas. A character can turn to more "colorful" channels in order to procure equipment, but the black market often means shady dealings and vastly inflated prices. Weapons that have Influence values listed under Availability indicate the level and type of Influence required in order to procure the weapon through illicit channels. Finally, of course, there's cost: A character must have some level of the Finance Ability or money-raising Influence to procure exotic melee weapons and nearly all firearms.

Once a character has a weapon, that doesn't mean he can keep it forever. Too often characters run about firing shotguns and large automatic weapons without facing the massive police manhunts that such battles invariably provoke. Take care that characters with powerful weapons understand the equally powerful repercussions that come from their use. These consequences not only preserve game balance, but enforces a sense of realism and keeps the game from turning into Die Hard with fangs.

SPECIAL WEAPON CAPABILITIES

Some weapons have special abilities, allowing an attacker to inflict extra damage, ignore certain types of protection or strike multiple opponents. (Such powers are noted under the weapon descriptions.)

Armor-Piercing

Special rounds, generally Teflon-coated, are able to pierce armor with ease. Although they do not inflict extra damage, armor-piercing rounds ignore any defenses from armor. Such rounds are typically tricky to acquire, though, and legal inquiries often follow their use.

Destroy Shield

Although rare in this day and age, certain Inquisitors and anachronistic elders still use shields. A weapon capable of destroying a shield penetrates it automatically and renders it useless after a certain number of blows, no matter what the size or strength of the shield may be.

Fully Automatic

A firearm with this ability is capable of emptying dozens of rounds into a single target at close range. This attack inflicts an extra health level of damage automatically due to sheer volume of fire; however, after emptying the clip from fully automatic fire, the character must spend one action reloading the weapon before it may be fired again.

High-Caliber

Firearms of particularly high caliber can cause crippling wounds with only a few shots. When a high-caliber weapon hits a target, the attacker should make a Simple Test immediately. A win indicates that the target suffers an additional health level of damage from the shot.

Laws of the Night

202

Incendiary

Burning weapons cause aggravated wounds to just about anything. Some, like flame-throwers or molotov cocktails, burn the target with streams or explosions of fire, while others such as incendiary rounds ("hot loads") burn the target with superheated ammunition. See the damage section for the effects of fire.

Mass-Trauma

Certain weapons are so powerful they inflict massive damage on a target, literally tearing away portions of flesh. Such weapons score an extra health level of damage when used appropriately.

Speed

Fast weapons can be used to "pre-empt" an opponent's attack, allowing the attacker with the speedier weapon to strike and resolve his challenge first. A character must have the Melee Ability to use this special ability, and he must be attacking or otherwise actively using (parrying, disarming) the weapon in order to gain this benefit. Fast weapons only gain a preemptive strike against opponents in hand-to-hand or melee combat.

Since many attacks are handled simultaneously for ease of play (both players testing at once and the winner scoring a hit), this ability is not always very useful. However, if the Storyteller opts to allow each attacker to test individually (attacking striking defender, then defender counter-striking), this ability puts characters with fast weapons on the offensive.

Spray

The weapon can strike several targets at once, as noted under the weapon's specific parameters. The shooter makes one test against all the targets simultaneously. Each target who fails the test suffers the weapon's damage, while each target who succeeds avoids the weapon's damage. The shooter risks only the Traits required to test against each member of the group, and he loses only those Traits if any of the defenders wins the test.

Staking

Staking weapons paralyze vampires when a successful blow penetrates one's heart. The attacker must win or tie two successive Simple Tests in order to successfully stake the vampire.

BIDDING WEAPON TRAITS

During a normal hand-to-hand fight, characters bid Physical Traits against their opponents' Physical Traits. However, if a character is using firearms, he may use Mental Traits instead. If his opponent is also using a firearm, she bids Mental Traits as well. If the opponent is not using a firearm and is merely trying to dodge, then the attacker uses Mental Traits to attack, while the defender uses her Physical Traits to dodge. This instance is one of the few in which Traits associated with different Attributes may be used against one another. WEAPON EXAMPLES

MELEE WEAPONS

Knife/Dagger-These easily concealed weapons are very common, lightning fast in the hands of a skilled user, and they can also be used as ranged weapons if a character uses the Athletics Ability properly.

Bonus Traits: 2

Negative Traits: Short Concealability: Pocket Damage: One health level

Availability: Any

Special Ability: Speed: In close combat against any weapon that has the Negative Traits: Clumsy, Heavy or Slow, the knife-fighter gains the option to pre-empt the opponent's attacks and strike first in any turn, as long as he has the Melee Ability.

Rules. Systems and Drama

200

Wooden Stake-A short length of wood sharpened at one end, these humble weapons have nonetheless been the downfall of many vampires over the centuries.

Bonus Traits: 2

Negative Traits: Short Concealability: Jacket Damage: One health level

Availability: Any

Special Ability: Staking: A wooden stake can pierce the heart of a vampire (thus paralyzing the unfortunate Lick) if the wielder wins or ties two successive Simple Tests after striking.

Club/Ax-These two common weapon types can be anything from chair legs to hand axes to billy clubs; one bludgeons while the other cuts, but the essential function is the same.

Bonus Traits: Club: 2, Ax: 3

Negative Traits: Clumsy

Concealability: Trenchcoat

Damage: Club-One health level; Ax - Two health levels

Availability: Any

Special Ability: Ax: Destroy Shield. Axes render shields useless after three blows. Fencing Blades Still popular with many elders, these thin blades rely on speed instead of strength, and they inflict most of their damage from piercing rather than slashing.

Bonus Traits: 2

Negative Traits: Fragile Concealability: Trenchcoat Damage: One health level

Availability: Any. A fencing foil tends to attract less police attention than an ornamental saber, especially if the character is wearing or carrying fencing gear

Special Ability: Speed: In close combat against any weapon that has the Negative Traits: Clumsy, Heavy or Slow, the fencer gains the option to pre-empt the opponent's attacks and strike first in any turn, as long as he has the Melee Ability.

ARCHAIC BANGED WEAPONS

Longbow These huge, powerful bows make mincemeat of regular armor, and many older Cainites are trained in the arts of archery. Modern compound bows are smaller and use pulley systems to generate powerful pull; these bows do not have the Negative Trait: Clumsy, but give the user only five Bonus Traits.

Bonus Traits: 6

Negative Traits: Fragile, Clumsy, Heavy

Concealability: No way.

Damage: Two health levels

Availability: Any.

Special Ability: Armor-Piercing: Longbows ignore chain armor. Staking: Arrows may be used to stake a vampire, if the archer wins or ties two Simple Tests after a successful hit. Destroy Shield: One shot from a longbow renders a shield useless.

FIREARMS

Pistol-This designation covers nearly any sort of small- and medium-caliber handgun commonly encountered, from zip guns and holdout pieces to 9mms and standard police-issue sidearms.

Bonus Traits: 2 Negative Traits: Loud

Laws of the Night

204

Concealability: Pocket

Damage: Two health levels

Availability: Any, if registered; Police 4, Street 3 or Underworld 2 otherwise. Heavy Pistol This designation covers the monsters of the handgun range, from the Desert Eagle to a .454 Cassull. These tremendous guns use high-caliber ammunition to punch large holes in their targets.

Bonus Traits: 2

Negative Traits: Loud Concealability: Jacket

Damage: Two health levels

Availability: Any, if registered; Police 4, Street 4 or Underworld 3 otherwise. Special Ability: High-Caliber: Heavy Pistols allow a Simple Test on a successful hit. Success indicates the target takes an extra level of damage.

Rifle Favored by many hunters and snipers.

Bonus Traits: 3

Negative Traits: Loud Concealability: None.

Damage: Two health levels

Availability: Any, if registered; Police 4, Street 4 or Underworld 3 otherwise. Special Ability: High-Caliber: Rifles may be loaded with high-caliber ammuni-

tion. Note that the character must specifically acquire such ammunition to gain this benefit it is not included automatically when using a rifle.

Shotgun-This powerful weapon fires a spray of pellets, making targets easy to hit. Bonus Traits: 3

Negative Traits: Loud Concealability: None

Damage: Two health levels

Availability: Any, if registered. Police 4, Street 4 or Underworld 3 otherwise. Special Ability: Spray: A shotgun may affect up to three targets if they are standing immediately next to each other and are further than 20 feet from the person firing the shotgun. This effect can be gained only if the shotgun is loaded with pellets, not slugs. Mass-Trauma: A shotgun can cause an extra health level of damage to a single target standing within five feet.

Submachine Gun - These weapons are very powerful, and they fire a large number of bullets very quickly, making them the favorite weapons of many gangs, where accuracy isn't as important as hitting a large number of targets at the same time. The law requires these guns be sold as non-automatic weapons, with only single-shot capability, but a use of the Repair Ability can convert them to fully automatic fire.

Bonus Traits: 2

Negative Traits: Loud Concealability: Jacket

Damage: Two health levels

Availability: Any, if registered and non-automatic. Police 4, Street 4 or Under- world 3 otherwise.

Special Ability: Spray: A submachine gun may affect up to five targets if they're standing immediately next to each other and are further than 10 feet from the person firing the gun. Fully Automatic: A submachine gun inflicts an additional health level of damage if the entire clip is emptied into a target standing no more than five feet away.

Rules. Systerns and Drama

209

Авмов

Since it stops incoming damage, armor effectively grants a character extra health levels; these health levels are lost before the character himself suffers any damage in combat. Of course, armor does not soak all attacks-a suit of chain-mail does little good for a character whose blood is being boiled by Thaumaturgy, for instance.

Different types of armor can absorb different amounts of punishment before losing their effectiveness; it should be noted that armor that has lost all its health levels is not necessarily completely destroyed, but more likely that it has been temporarily rendered useless instead. Of course, some attacks may destroy armor beyond repair. Fixing armor requires the proper tools and a Static Physical Challenge with the Repair Ability.

Armor has two different traits for game purposes. Health levels indicate how many levels of damage the armor can absorb before becoming useless and in need of repair. Negative Traits are the drawbacks a wearer gains for donning a particular type of armor. Chain-mail This category covers most medium levels of metal armor, including scale and brigandine. True chain-mail is quite rare in the modern age, but many elders and some mortal Inquisitors keep a suit on hand.

Health levels: 2

Negative Traits: Heavy

Availability: Any. Chain-mail generally must be custom made, and it can cost upward of $500 or more.

Plate mail Extremely expensive and hard to come by, these ornate suits of interlocking metal plates provide excellent protection but sacrifice a great deal of mobility.

Health levels: 3

Negative Traits: Heavy, Clumsy

Availability: Any. Plate mail generally must be custom-ordered, and it can cost upward of $3000 or more.

Ballistic vest - This basic level of protection shields the wearer from some dangers, and it doesn't attract the same kind of attention that more complicated forms of armor are bound to bring.

Health levels: 2

Negative Traits: Heavy

Availability: Police 4, or Underworld 3

Reinforced (bulletproof) vest - The favored type of armor for military personnel and law enforcement officers expecting dangerous situations, these vests provide excellent protection, even stopping many types of small arms fire.

Health levels: 3

Negative Traits: Heavy, Clumsy

Availability: Police 5, or Underworld 4

RANGED COMBAT

Many weapons allow a character to stand at a distance from a target and engage him in combat. In such situations, the character must still go over to the target (after shouting "Bang\!" or "Twang\!") and engage in a challenge.

If a character has surprised her opponent, even if she loses the first test, she has the option of calling for a second test. Once the second challenge is called, play continues as normal with that new challenge. The target is considered to be surprised for the first attack, and if he has no ranged weapon with which to return fire, he is considered "surprised" for as long as the aggressor can attack him without facing resistance (that is, if he wins on a challenge, she doesn't take damage).

Laws of the Night

If the target is aware of the attack before it happens, and he has a ranged weapon of his own, he is not considered to be surprised for the first attack. He may shoot back right away, and challenges are resolved as stated.

After the first shot is fired (and the first challenge is resolved), the target may attempt to return fire (assuming he is armed). The loser of a firefight challenge loses a health level. Characters using the Athletics Ability to throw projectiles like knives or axes fall under the same rules for regular ranged combat, including cover. Questions of range should not be a problem, but if it becomes an issue use common sense, and don't forget to make allowances for things like the Potence Discipline.

COVER

Fighting with ranged weapons allows combatants to stand some distance apart; participants can therefore "dive for cover." When resolving each ranged combat challenge, each combatant can present one Trait of cover to add to his total number of Traits. These cover Traits may not be used for bidding, but they do add to a player's total if Traits are compared. This cover can take the form of whatever obstacles are around and within reach (don't actually dive for them). A Narrator might be required to describe what cover is around, unless the combatants can agree on what cover is available.

If cover is extensive, it may be worth more than one Trait. The number of Traits available for cover is left for challengers to agree on, or for a Narrator to decree. Hiding behind a boulder, for example, might be worth two Traits, while hiding behind a thin wood fence might only count as one. If one combatant goes completely under cover (he cannot be seen at all and is thoroughly protected), he is considered impossible to hit. The attacker must change his position to get a clear shot.

MELEEAND BRAWLING

Melee fighting can only occur when two parties are within weapon's reach of each other. Characters using melee weapons often have access to special abilities if they also possess the Melee Ability. For example, a trained character using a fencing foil can take advantage of his weapon's speed when fighting a character wielding a battle ax.

Brawling can only occur when two characters are within arm's length of each other. Characters engaged in brawling may use unarmed combat techniques on each other, including trips, kicks, punches, wrestling holds and throws. However, regardless of the description, unless the character possesses some supernatural power or other ability that specifically allows for extra damage, all brawling tests result in one health level of bashing damage.

SPECIALIZED FIGHTING STYLES

Buying a specialized fighting style under the Melee or Brawl Abilities allows you to describe how your character moves to allow retests and permits a certain flair for your attacks and defenses, but does not allow you to do extra damage or specific injuries. Two- GUN MOJO

It's possible to use more than one weapon at a time in combat, though it's quite tricky. Just performing a task with the wrong hand is sufficient to penalize your chance of success; compounding matters by doing something else with the other hand doesn't help any.

For the purposes of simplicity, it's usually easiest to assume that a character is the same-handedness as the player, unless the Merit Ambidextrous is taken. Further- more, these rules do not apply to common uses of both hands, such as typing, playing a musical instrument or working a craft.

When performing a task with the offhand, you suffer a two-Trait penalty. Thus, you must bid a total of three Traits to initiate the challenge, and you have a lower chance of success. The Merit Ambidextrous means that you suffer no penalty for an off-hand, since both of your hands are equally nimble. You still suffer coordination penalties for using both

Rules, Systems and Drama

hands. Thus, if you're Ambidextrous, you can perform a task with either hand without penalty, but if you use both hands at once, you must bid two Traits for each hand.

When you specialize in a fighting style you can choose Two-Weapon Combat or Florentine for your specialty. This negates one penalty Trait from your attacks with the specified form of combat. Thus, instead of bidding two Traits with your primary hand and three with your

off hand, you would bid one and two Traits, respectively. Combined with Ambidexterous, you can use two weapons at no penalty whatsoever. Storytellers, take note of combat monsters in the making who try this combination. Developing such a specialty should take months of training.

When using both hands, you only get one extra action, regardless of Celerity and similar speed-altering powers. Split your actions equally between your hands-if you have Legerity good for two bonus actions and you're using both hands, you get your normal action, your two Celerity actions and your extra hand action, for a total of four actions. These would be split up to two actions with each hand; if you took an action or two to do other things, you'd split the remainder evenly. A leftover action is automatically applied to your primary hand. CONTESTS OF WILL

Contests of will are an ancient tradition in Kindred society. They occur when two characters lock eyes for the purpose of intimidating each other; the idea is to force one's rival to back down before a conflict actually comes to blows. Success in a contest of wills is determined in one of two ways. First, it is highly recommended that this action be roleplayed out rather than resort to the rules; in this case, if one of the players relents while roleplaying this action, his opponent is considered to be the winner. If a quick result is needed, or if neither of the players relents, a Social Challenge is used to determine the victor instead, with the loser breaking eye contact and losing the contest. FRENZY

When Kindred undergo the Embrace, the Beast within them is loosed forever, causing them to occasionally succumb to a vicious form of madness where they are little more than a wild animal. While in frenzy a character feels no pain and acts on instinct, using his bare hands and fangs to rip apart anything in his path; friends are targets of the vampire's rage just as often as enemies are. What brings on frenzy in a Kindred can be highly personalized, but triggers common to all vampires are blood hunger, extreme passion, frustration, defeat, humiliation at the hands of a rival or threats to a vampire's friends or loved ones. Players must be consistent with what causes a frenzy; a player cannot ignore something that would normally trigger frenzy simply because it isn't expedient for them to frenzy at this time. Discretion is advised; a character in constant frenzy is no fun to be around, and will likely be "put down" by other vampires.

Succumbing to frenzy is considered shameful and debased among the Kindred of the Camarilla, who pride themselves on maintaining their composure and hate being reminded of the Beast within them. Among the vampires of the Sabbat, frenzy is seen as a powerful weapon, and many Sabbat are trained to coax their Beasts to the surface during combat.

To see if a character resists entering frenzy, the player performs a Static Self- Control Challenge (Self-Control versus a difficulty based on the stimulus, no Traits risked). Failure indicates that a frenzy takes hold. If the vampire succeeds in the test, he manages to push aside his more feral instincts and is immune to further challenges against the same stimulus for the rest of the scene or conflict.

Characters with the Instinct Virtue always enter frenzy, unless they have more Instinct than double the rating of the frenzy shown on the table, in which case they may choose whether or not to enter frenzy. Once in frenzy, the character can make an

Laws of the Night

Traits

One Two

Three

Four Five

SELF-CONTROL/INSTINCT DIFFICULTIES

Stimulus

Smell of blood when hungry Sight of blood when hungry; harassed; life-threatening situation

Physical provocation or attacks; taste of blood when hungry

Loved one in danger; humiliated Outright humiliation; mortal insults

Instinct Virtue Test, if desired, to control her actions for one turn. If she wins the test, she manages to direct her frenzy for the turn, though she will still suffer all the usual conditions of frenzy-resistance to injury, inability to use her Mental or Social powers and so on. If the character loses, her frenzy proceeds as normal. In the event of a tie, the character compares her current Instinct Traits to the provocation rating to determine whether she can direct her frenzy.

A character can try to instill frenzy in another character by taunting him and calling for a Social Challenge. If the taunting character wins the challenge, the defender must then test to resist frenzy. If the defender wins the challenge, nothing happens. A successful defender is immune to further taunts from the same character for the remainder of the session.

Once in the state of frenzy, a character attacks all those around him without discretion. A frenzied character does not suffer penalties from wounds until reaching torpor or Final Death. Frenzied characters cannot attempt Social Challenges other than ones related to intimidation, though they need not risk a Trait if someone initiates a Social test against them during this time.

A character may fend off frenzy for 10 minutes by expending one Willpower Trait. However, if the frenzy trigger is still present after that time, the vampire must check for frenzy again immediately. Once in frenzy, a character may expend a Willpower Trait to attempt a Static Self-Control Challenge to get a hold of himself. A character also gets a free Static Challenge to end the frenzy once the trigger is removed; otherwise, the frenzy burns out on its own 10 minutes later. If a player attempts to make a test of Self-Control/ Instinct and fails, she automatically gains the Negative Social Trait: Callous or Condescending (your choice), though it can be bought off normally.

Another character may attempt to talk a vampire out of frenzy by winning a Social Challenge against him with a difficulty of 10 minus the target Kindred's Humanity/ Path rating. Remember, the frenzied vampire need not risk a Trait during this Social Challenge. Failing such a challenge usually means the frenzied Kindred turns his attention on his would-be savior.

RÖTSCHRECK

Having already cheated death once, most vampires have no desire to try their luck again. This primal survival urge sometimes manifests as a state of utter terror where the vampire flees the object of his fear any way he can; this state is known as Rötschreck. Both Cainite societies consider Rötschreck extremely shameful, and most vampires avoid it at all costs. The Sabbat executes "cowards" without asking what they fled from, and a Camarilla vampire faces rapid Status loss.

All vampires must battle Rötschreck when faced with exposure to fire, sunlight and the presence of especially powerful faith, but in addition to those fundamental

Rules. Systers and Drama

200

terrors, many Kindred also have Rötschreck triggers related to important personal circumstances. As with frenzy, a Kindred cannot choose to ignore potential Rötschreck triggers just because it wouldn't be expedient to panic.

A vampire who enters Rötschreck flees the object of her fear as directly and rapidly as she can, blindly attacking any obstacles or people that get in her way; if flight proves impossible, the vampire seeks instead to destroy the object of her fear, then flee. If for some reason neither fight nor flight is an option, the vampire curls up in abject terror for the duration of the Rötschreck. Note that this fear does not blind the vampire to her self- preservation instincts- a vampire will not leap out a 30-story window to avoid a lit cigarette-but any path that is not obviously suicidal becomes a distinct possibility.

Rötschreck is resisted with a Static Courage Challenge (Courage versus Narrator's difficulty, no Traits risked). Rötschreck is otherwise considered identical to frenzy for the purposes of determining its duration, as well as all challenges and Willpower costs necessary to prevent or end it, with Courage substituted for Self-Control/ Instinct wherever applicable. Characters may also be talked out of Rötschreck just like frenzy. GOLCONDA

SLAKING THE ENDLESS HUNGER

Some vampires pursue a mystical state of being known as Golconda, where the vampire finally accepts the terms of the Curse. The Camarilla scoffs at the notion of Golconda, calling ita fool's dream, but in the dark of the Final Nights more and more Kindred feel drawn to search out this mystery. The Sabbat and the independent clans consider Golconda beneath notice, a guilt-driven Judeo-Christian fantasy that has no place in such a vicious unlife.

The search is highly personal, and the Storyteller is encouraged to be extremely demanding when it comes to Golconda quests. Bear in mind that Golconda is a goal easily worthy of years of game time and constant progress throughout multiple chronicles. There is only one solid rule for characters on Golconda quests: They must maintain a Humanity rating of at least four Traits and a Conscience rating of at least four Traits to remain on the path of Golconda. Slipping below that level will cause mentors to desert a character until he atones for his degeneration. Golconda is not a goal for every character or every player.

Inner peace and transcendent enlightenment aside, characters who manage to achieve Golconda gain several game benefits. A character in Golconda does not expend one Blood Trait per night to awaken, but only one Blood Trait per week. Characters in Golconda also do not frenzy or enter Rötschreck, and supernatural powers that instill such states do not work. Finally, the character may learn all Disciplines equally even if he is not of appropriate generation or clan to learn them. If he ever falls out of Golconda, however, all these benefits disappear immediately. TRUE FAITH

True Faith is belief in a power, entity, consciousness sometimes even a purpose that is greater than oneself, and as such, it is not limited to any particular religion. Even vampires can have it, but even so, only those beings of the most pure character only the truly selfless, caring, compassionate and courageous have a chance at possessing True Faith. Most Kindred will only come across True Faith when they do battle with the Inquisition or other hunting groups.

Characters may only improve their Faith with exceptional roleplaying and Storyteller approval. The game uses for True Faith are covered exhaustively in Laws of the Hunt; however, some basic rules for Faith are included here.

By brandishing his holy symbol, the bearer gains the Social Trait: Intimidating when repelling undead and warding off supernatural powers. If used to strike a supernatural creature, a holy symbol grants the extra Physical Traits Burning and

Laws of the Night

210

Traits

One

Two

Three

Four Five

COURAGE DIFFICULTIES

Stimulus

Being bullied; lighter; sunrise

Torch; obscured sunlight

Bonfire; uncovered window during daylight

House fire; being burned

Trapped in a burning building; direct sunlight

Searing, and it inflicts one level of aggravated damage. If a vampire has the Flaw: Repelled by Crosses, he takes an additional level of aggravated damage when touched on bare skin by a cross wielded by a person with True Faith.

• A character with True Faith may attempt to repel vampires by brandishing his holy symbol, invoking his belief ("In the name of Icommand you to be gone," etc.) and employing a Social Challenge. Success means the vampire must flee the area immediately. Failure means the vampire must still back off a few feet and cower before taking action, and the vampire still may not initiate any attacks during the next turn, although she may defend herself normally. A vampire may only resist this use of Faith by attempting to overbid with Willpower; if she currently possesses at least twice as many Willpower Traits as the Faithful character, she remains unaffected. A character may attempt to repel multiple vampires with a group challenge.

It is much easier to lose Faith than gain it; any time a character fails a test in which True Faith was involved, he has a crisis of faith. During such a time, he is one Trait down on all Social Challenges for the remainder of the scene and unable to invoke his Faith again until that Faith Trait has been restored (Narrator's discretion). BLOOD BOND

Many undead exploit the heady emotions found in drinking vampiric vitae to stir passion in their dead hearts, but it is a dangerous rush, for if a being drinks from the same vampire three times, on three separate nights, she falls under the sway of a mystical state known as the blood bond. A vampire who holds another in bondage is said to be the victim's regnant, while the being who has been bound is called the thrall. Supernatural powers such as Dominate cannot change the victim's feelings for her regnant; only true love has a chance at defeating the bond.

A blood bond must be maintained with further drinks. The relationship has an impact as well: thralls who are constantly abused and humiliated by their regnants find their bond fading fast, while thralls who are treated with affection and respect find it harder to resist their regnants.

Blood bonds are used commonly to ensnare mortals and ghouls in a vampire's web, but it is possible for Cainites to bind each other as well-unlike the generation prohibition of Dominate, elders may be bound by the vitae of younger vampires. There are three steps in the process, corresponding to the number of drinks a victim has taken from another character:

First drink: At this stage, the drinker has strong flashes of emotion regarding the vampire the character may find herself daydreaming about the vampire or frequenting areas where she might "stumble across" him. There are no game effects at this stage, but it should be roleplayed.

Second drink: While not the vampire's slave, the drinker definitely considers him a central figure in her life. She may do as she pleases, but she must win or tie a Simple Test to take actions directly harmful to the vampire. Furthermore, she is one Trait down to resist any of the vampire's Social Challenges.

Rules. Systems and Drama

Third drink: Full-scale blood bond. Nothing matches the victim's devotion to the vampire-lovers, spouses, even children become secondary to her regnant. A regnant need not even make eye contact to Dominate his thrall; the mere sound of his voice is enough, and the thrall is two Traits down to resist the regnant's Dominate. Regnants may hold any number of beings in thralldom; furthermore, once bound, a particular thrall may not be fully bound to another vampire while the original bond lasts.

A thrall may resist the bond temporarily by spending a Willpower Trait. The bond may be resisted for one whole scene if the action taken is relatively indirect, while one Willpower Trait is required per turn if the thrall wishes to physically attack her regnant.

A blood bond may be broken permanently only in a few ways. First of all, a thrall who manages to avoid all contact whatsoever with her regnant for a period of months equal to 12 minus her permanent Willpower rating may find her bond has decreased to the level of a two-drink bond once more. During this time, the character must roleplay the painful process of separation as well as spend Willpower Traits to battle the "addiction" she has to her regnant (Narrator's discretion).

Second, the thrall is sometimes released from the bond if she kills her regnant, though this condition is nowhere as certain as it may seem. Third, at the Narrator's discretion, a character who possesses the Merit: True Love to someone other than her regnant may be able to break the bond with the power of her love, but doing so requires arduous, in-depth roleplaying. Finally, some vampires whisper that the Sabbat knows of ways to break the blood bond, but it imparts them to only those who join the sect. DERANGEMENTS

Vampires and mortals alike risk developing derangements when faced with overpowering conditions of extreme terror, guilt or anxiety. The Storyteller may decide a derangement is in order after any experience that generates especially intense and unpleasant emotions, or which violates a character's beliefs or ethics severely. All derangements carry "triggers," circumstances which cause the effects of the derange- ment to become active; once activated, derangements remain in effect for the rest of the scene, and players must modify their character's Traits, attitudes and behavior in accordance with the derangement description. Characters may resist a derangement by expending a Willpower Trait-this effect lasts for one scene, however, if the trigger is still present at the end of that time, the character must spend another Willpower Trait. In the case of particularly intense mental stress, Narrators may rule additional Willpower Traits or a Static Willpower Challenge is required.

It is up to the Storyteller to determine what amount of time and Willpower is required to cure a derangement, and such cures are best left to thoughtful and involved roleplaying rather than simple Trait expenditure. Malkavians may never cure the original derangement(s) brought on by their Clan Disadvantage.

Note: There is nothing funny or arbitrary about the way a "crazy" person acts. The insane character is only reacting to the stimuli that he perceives to be real- to him, his behavior is perfectly normal. Players should never forget the Mind's Eye Theatre rules of safety still apply when roleplaying derangements.

Bulimia

Bulimic characters salve their guilt and insecurity by overindulging in activities that comfort them in this instance, consuming food (or blood, for vampires). Characters with this affliction will gorge themselves as much as possible when under stress, then purge their systems through drastic means and consume more. Characters with this derangement must make a Static Conscience/ Conviction Challenge when feeding; failure means the vampire feeds until his blood pool is full, whether or not he needs the blood. If forcibly kept from feeding, the vampire must resist frenzy.

Laws of the Night

212

Crimson Rage

A character with this derangement is prone to experiencing fits of anger with little provocation. While the two bear certain resemblances, this state is quite different from frenzy -frenzy is the instincts of the vampiric Beast, while Crimson Rage is a character's own feelings of helplessness and inadequacy. Characters with Crimson Rage are not protected from being pushed over the edge into frenzy while insane, however. Whenever this derangement is active, the character gains the Negative Traits: Violent x 2 and Impatient.

Fugue

Characters suffering this affliction react to stress by adopting a specific set of behaviors; in the process they suffer "blackouts" or periods of memory loss. Whenever confronted by extreme stress, the character must win a Static Willpower Challenge; failure means the character blacks out and the player must roleplay the character's trancelike state. Otherwise, control of the character passes to a Narrator for a scene, who dictates the actions the character takes in order to remove the stress. At the end of the fugue, the character "regains consciousness" with no memory of his actions.

Hysteria

Characters with this derangement are unable to properly control their emotions when subjected to stress or pressure, becoming vulnerable to wild mood swings and fits of intense violence. The vampire must test to resist frenzy any time such stress is present; in addition, whenever the vampire fails in a particularly stressful or prominent instance, she enters frenzy automatically. (Narrators have final say on what classifies as such a dramatic failure.)

Immortal Terror

An insanity most recently identified with a certain reluctant movie vampire, this madness stems from the Cainite's inability to deal with the true scope of his immortality. Terrified by the real implications of living forever, the vampire copes by developing a strong unconscious "death wish." Whenever the character is confronted by direct evidence of his immortality-such as attending a funeral or watching a mortal ally die-the character must make a Static Willpower Challenge (difficulty four Traits) to avoid immediately undertaking actions that might result in his destruction. Such actions can be as indirect as breaching the Masquerade by telling a reporter about Kindred society, as long as the act carries potentially deadly conse quences. Note that the vampire is not consciously aware that he seeks his own destruction, and he resists attempts to persuade him otherwise.

Manic-Depression

This derangement causes a character to suffer devastating mood swings. Whenever the character fails to achieve a personal goal, she must win a Static Willpower Challenge (no Traits risked) or fall into a depressive state for a number of scenes determined by the Narrator. While depressed, her Willpower Traits are considered halved (round down, minimum one) for purposes of Trait comparison, and she may not spend Blood Traits to raise her Physical Traits. After that, she enters a period of upbeat energy and excitement, pursuing her goals obsessively for a number of scenes equal to the time spent in depression. During this manic time she is one Trait down to resist frenzy.

Megalomania

These individuals have made power the focus of their existence, and such characters must always be the most potent individuals in their environment; where the power stems from is irrelevant, just so long as they are dominant. They believe that other people are divided into two classes: lesser beings and beings elevated beyond their worth. Rivals are considered "competition." Due to their supreme confidence, they are considered one Trait up on all Willpower tests while their derangement is active, but they must also make a Willpower test (difficulty six Traits) to resist any opportunity to commit diablerie during that time.

Rules Systems and Drama

213

Multiple Personalities

A character with this derangement has suffered mental anguish so severe that his mind reacted by creating additional personas. Each personality is relevant to the trauma that caused it, and the player should work with the Storyteller to determine how many personalities are present, their Natures and what triggers a particular personality. When a personality is triggered, it assumes control until the conditions it was created to deal with have passed. Characters can manifest different Abilities and even Virtues for each personality (all such Traits must still be purchased normally- what a personality believes it can do can be different from what it is actually capable of). but any such arrangements must be worked out with the Storyteller.

Obsessive/Compulsive

Characters suffering from this derangement are driven to control their environ- ment. Obsessive characters keep one aspect of their life constant-personal cleanliness or keeping things quiet, for example. Compulsive characters perform specific actions or sets of actions, such as washing their hands constantly or always feeding from mortals in a ritualistic fashion. Obsessive/ compulsive characters are one Trait up to resist any attempt to Dominate or otherwise coerce them from their set behaviors, but they frenzy automatically if forcibly prevented from adhering to their derangement.

Paranoia

Paranoid beings believe that all their woes and suffering stem from an outside source. Many afflicted beings come up with intricate theories about just who is against them and why; those they suspect of being "one of them" are often subject to swift and brutal violence. Paranoid characters trust no one, not even those blood bound to them, and they have a difficult time interacting with others. They are one Trait down on all Social tests while their derangement is active, and any sign of suspicious activity forces them to test to resist frenzy.

Regression

Characters suffering from this affliction avoid facing responsibilities or conse quences by retreating to a younger state where less was required of them. During this state they may alternate between times of whimsy and temper tantrums, but they will always seek to put a more powerful individual between them and whatever is plaguing them. Victims are two Traits down on all Mental Challenges.

Sanguinary Animism

This illness is unique to vampires, a response to guilt for feeding on mortals. Afflicted vampires believe that they do not merely consume a victim's blood, but part of his soul as well. The vampire hears her victim's voice inside her head and is assaulted by "memories" of the victim's life-all created by the vampire's subcon- scious. Whenever the vampire feeds on a mortal, she must make a Static Willpower Challenge; success means she is distracted as above and is one Trait down on all challenges for the remainder of the scene. Failure means the character gains a second angry, reproachful personality bent on driving her to ruin. The character is at a one- Trait penalty to all actions for the duration of the madness, and he must roleplay the inner conflict involved; this madness lasts until the moments just before dawn.

Schizophrenia

Individuals with this derangement have had their psyche fractured by terrible, unresolvable inner conflicts. Most people conceive of this type of disorder when they envision insanity; victims might imagine crucified rabbits floating after them, or swear that their dead father is telling them to murder their uncle. This disorder is anything but arbitrary -the player should work with the Storyteller to determine a general set of behaviors relevant to the original trauma. Kindred with this derangement are unpredictable and dangerous in situations where their inner conflict flares up, they must automatically retest any win to resist frenzy, and they are two Traits down on all Willpower tests.

Laws of the Night

214

DIABLERIE

Of all the crimes known to the Kindred, none is more feared than the soul- stealing sin known as diablerie, or the Amaranth. Those convicted of this crime suffer the harshest punishments in the Camarilla, and the mere suspicion of diablerie is enough to spark city-wide blood hunts. Still, no punishment is harsh enough to end this forbidden practice, for diablerie offers a seductive way of increasing one's power.

Committing Diablerie

Diablerie is divided into four distinct stages. First the diablerist must incapacitate his target; only after the target is physically immobilized may diablerie commence. The diablerist then drains her victim dry, taking one Blood Trait automatically per turn. Then the diablerist must strip the target's health levels away until she puts him in torpor (if he isn't there already). The target may resist this process with a Physical Challenge per health level, but he may bid only stamina-related Traits, and he cannot injure the diablerist as a result of the challenge. If the diablerist ever cannot match the victim's Physical Traits, she falls away and the target can die quietly. Likewise, a vampire draining health levels cannot be targeted by any Mental or Social Challenges, but she also cannot defend herself, and any attempts to attack her or pull her away succeed automatically.

If a victim is drained dry of blood and reduced to torpor, the final struggle begins, as the diablerist tries to ensnare the victim's soul before it can escape. This effort is a Physical Challenge, and the victim is three Traits up. The diablerist may continue trying until she can no longer match the victim's Physical Traits-success means she absorbs the target's soul into her own, while ultimate failure means the target's spirit flees to the afterlife.

A character may have other characters assist him in incapacitating his target and even in draining the target of Blood Traits and health levels, but only one Kindred can gain the ultimate benefits of diablerie. However, the seduction of the process is very strong-a character who wishes to halt diablerie after the third stage

ACTION OF DIABLERIST

Incapacitate target

Drain blood

Drain health levels;

Drain Essence

Before Stage Three

After Stage Three

CHALLENGE REQUIRED

Stage One

Beat 'em, stake 'em

Stage Two

Automatic one Blood Trait

drained/ action

Stage Three

Stage Four

Halt Diablerie

Physical Challenge against

victim; victim cannot harm diablerist, but diablerist cannot defend against outside attacks

Physical Challenge; victim is three Traits up.

No challenge required; diablerist may simply stop.

Spend Willpower Trait and succeed at Static Mental Challenge against a difficulty of three Traits.

Rules Systems and Drama

must spend a Willpower Trait and succeed at a Static Mental Challenge against three Traits, or she will attempt to continue the diablerie process herself.

Note: You cannot diablerize anything but another vampire. A mortal soul, with no torpor state in between life and death, flees as soon as its body is killed, as does the soul of a faerie, werebeast or any other supernatural critter some Lick makes a meal out of. You may drain such beings of their blood and even kill them, but soul tartar is strictly a Cainite delicacy.

Rewards of Diablerie

On successful completion of diablerie, the diablerist is overcome by euphoria, and he must check to avoid frenzy immediately; the diablerist has literally taken the victim's soul into her own. The true benefit of diablerie becomes apparent, however, if the victim was of a lower generation than the diablerist (e.g., a ninth-generation vampire diablerizing a seventh-generation vampire): By stealing the other Kindred's soul, the diablerist effectively raises her own generation by one, bringing her closer to Caine and otherwise conferring all the benefits of the new generation on the vampire. The character also gains two extra Experience Traits at the end of the session.

If the victim was of much greater power (five or more generation levels), the diablerist may gain more than one generation; ultimately, however, the decision is up to the Storyteller. If the victim was sufficiently powerful, the diablerist may experience a temporary surge in her Disciplines. Any increases are granted solely at the Narrator's discretion, and in no event do these boosted Disciplines last for more than one scene.

Perils of Diablerie

Many neonates believe diablerie to be the perfect crime: the body is destroyed in the process, making it difficult to secure enough evidence to support an accusation of murder. However, diablerists quickly learn that there are several ways of learning the identity of those who have committed this heinous sin. Storytellers are encouraged to remember the horrific magnitude of the crime and ensure that diablerie never goes on casually.

First, and most importantly, a character with Humanity always loses at least one Humanity Trait permanently for committing such a heinous act, and he might even lose more if the deed was especially foul-no test, no appeal. Even characters on a Path stand to lose a Path Trait for such a horrible crime, unless their Path specifically condones it. A vampire using the Auspex Discipline of Aura Perception may detect diablerie on a character's aura for up to three months after the diablerie was committed; this crime appears as black veins running through the offender's aura.

Likewise, a vampire using the Thaumaturgy Discipline power A Taste for Blood may detect diablerie the character has committed, regardless of how long ago the crime occurred.

In the Camarilla, a vampire revealed to have committed diablerie is subject to an immediate blood hunt, and he may even have the blood hunt extended to other cities if her crime was heinous enough. What's worse, many such blood hunts have stipulations allowing the hunters to feed on the blood of the diablerist herself, and many princes look the other way if the hunters "accidentally" diablerize the criminal themselves. This legalized kinslaying makes most young Kindred eager to expose any diablerists among them.

⚫ Certain legends speak of diablerists displaying some of the mannerisms of their victims, especially if their victim was exceptionally strong-willed or of a greatly lower generation than the diablerist. Naturally, clever Storytellers will be quick to pick up on this trait when dealing with habitual diablerists.

STATUS

Kindred have developed many intricate rules of protocol and procedure when dealing with each other. Power-hungry vampires vie for positions of importance in the

Laws of the Night

210

great Jyhad constantly, and a vampire's reputation can be more valuable than any Influence or Discipline in some situations. Learning to play the power-games of the elders is a long and arduous task for neonates, but in the end one that serves most of them well-or hastens their demise.

Status is the measure of a vampire's reputation, and is measured in Traits. Most often, it usually stems from an office held among the local Kindred, from prince to primogen to scourge. Such posts are never given out, and those who hold them tend to defend them zealously. However, a vampire may also gain Status by being influential in the city's business, performing extraordinary deeds or by simply catching the right eyes at the right time.

Camarilla Status Traits: Acknowledged, Admired, Adored, Cherished, Esteemed, Exalted, Famous, Faultless, Feared, Honorable, Influential, Just, Praised, Respected, Revered, Trustworthy, Well-Connected, Well-Known.

Troupes should feel free to invent new Status Traits to suit their own stories and the reputations of the characters receiving the Traits. GAINING AND LOSING STATUS

All vampires who have been officially "accepted" by the prince acquire a single Status Trait: Acknowledged. Failure to possess this Trait means that a character cannot expect even the most simple favors from local Kindred, and he may even be hunted by the scourge if the prince discovers his presence. Most Masquerade characters will either start with this, or acquire it early on in the chronicle.

Characters may gain Status by helping uphold the Traditions (especially the Masquerade), doing favors for the prince or an elder, saving the unlife of a prominent Kindred, or defeating a Sabbat menace in the city. A city officer (such as the sheriff or keeper of Elysium) may recommend a Kindred for Status if she has been particularly useful or has assisted them in their work. On occasion, the prominent may award Status to those who hindered their enemies or overthrew them, but such notice may not always be a good thing.

Naturally, a character may lose Status as easily as he gains it (if not more so). Falsely accusing another vampire of a crime, violating the Traditions, committing diablerie or refusing to recognize the Status of another Kindred are but a few of the ways to earn such displeasure. Of course, if there are no witnesses to report such violations.

A character may never gain more than one Status Trait per story. There are two exceptions to this rule: if the prince rewards or sanctions an additional Trait, or if the Status Traits are conferred when a Kindred assumes an office in Kindred society. However, a character can lose more than one Status per story,

USING STATUS

Status comes in two types: permanent and temporary. Permanent Status is recorded on the character sheet, and is a measure of a character's actual standing in Kindred society; permanent Status losses or gains are added or removed from your character sheet. By contrast, the loss or gain of temporary Status has no effect on permanent Status and tends to fluctuate more. Temporary Status Traits can be represented with Status Cards (since they tend to change hands often).

You may bid a Status Trait instead of a regular Trait in any applicable Social Challenge. You may also choose to add Status Traits to your Social Traits during a Social Challenge if Traits are compared. You must tell your opponent when you wish to use your Status Traits in these ways, however, since they may choose to ignore them if they like. Such a disrespectful act typically means a loss of permanent Status for the offending Kindred, unless the vampire ignored was far less influential than the offender. Some form of punishment should be expected, though elders consider those who flout the system dangerously disruptive.

Rules Systems and Drama

217

Keeping tabs on Status can become quite a chore for one Storyteller to handle. It is therefore recommended that troupes assign a special Narrator, called the Gossip, to keep a written record of all important uses of Status (like loans, boons or snubs) to prevent future arguments. Players should report Status changes or activities like boons or snubs to the Gossip as soon as the game permits.

EXAMPLES OF STATUS

The following are some examples of the uses and benefits of Status:

Temporary Status may be used to add to your Social Traits during an applicable Social Challenge. (Note: This benefit does not include Discipline use, unless the Storyteller approves of such usage specifically.)

Status is a measure of a character's creditability. In any situation where it is one vampire's word against another, Status can be the determining factor. The same is true in the case of accusing another of a crime in which there is no concrete evidence. In all such cases, the character with the most Status is the one whose word is accepted.

You may loan temporary Status to another to show your favor, though the individual to which you made the loan must return it immediately on the asking. The bearer may spend this Trait as a temporary Trait, after which it is gone for the duration of the story. (This is the only way a character's temporary Status can rise above her permanent Status rating.) Loaned Status can be used exactly as you would use your own. You can give only one Trait of Status to any one person in this fashion.

You must possess at least one Trait of Status in order to petition the prince for any reason.

• Anyone of higher Status may remove permanent Status from those lower than themselves at a cost of one permanent Status Trait per Trait removed. Temporary Status may be removed in the same fashion. This is often done as punishment, including removing the Status of Acknowledged and thus leaving the person at the mercy of the scourge.

•You may grant permanent Status to another of your own clan if he has less than half your permanent Status. The cost for such a boon is one temporary Status Trait, and the boon must be made publicly, such as during a meeting of the primogen or another such gathering.

• A clan may remove one Status Trait from an elder of the clan by expending a group total of permanent Status Traits equal to the elder's permanent Status. The primogen may also lower the prince's permanent Status in the same fashion.

Remember, you may only gain one Status Trait per story, but you may lose more than one Trait. Again, there are two exceptions to this rule: Status granted or sanctioned by the prince, and Status received for assuming a station. STATIONS

There are eight official stations that a Kindred may hold, each of which grants Status within a city. Cities with small Kindred populations may double up certain stations, or even leave positions vacant. It is highly recommended that the most powerful stations should remain in the hands of Narrators and more experienced players, with newer players learning the ropes before taking a shot at attaining a station. Certain powers and responsibilities are inherent in each of these stations, and all powers that a station confers are lost immediately if a character is removed from or relinquishes it. The following is a list of the eight standard stations:

The Prince

The prince of a city automatically gains three additional Status Traits: Exalted, Well- Known and Famous. He can never lose these Traits permanently while remaining prince. The prince can remove one permanent Status Trait from someone at a cost

of one temporary Status Trait per Trait removed.

The prince can grant permanent Status Traits to any Kindred at a cost of one temporary Trait for each Trait awarded. The prince (and only the prince) may thus break

Laws of the Night

218

the rule of only gaining one Status Trait per story, allowing a character to gain more than one Trait. If a prince wishes to confer more than three permanent Status Traits on another Kindred in a single session, the fourth and subsequent Traits will cost the prince permanent Status instead of temporary Traits. It does not cost the prince temporary Status to award a Kindred the first Status Trait when she is first Presented. The Trait: Acknowledged is conferred automatically as long as the prince chooses to recognize the neonate.

Seneschal

The seneschal gains the following two additional Status Traits: Cherished and Esteemed. The character can never lose these Traits permanently while remaining seneschal. The seneschal can act in the prince's stead when the prince is out of the city. He is therefore entitled to all of the powers of the prince, although the prince may reverse or revoke them at any time.

Primogen

Primogen members each receive the additional Status Trait: Revered when they join the primogen. As long as the character remains one of the primogen, she cannot lose this Trait permanently.

• Primogen may grant or remove permanent Status Traits to or from any member of their clan at a cost of one temporary Status Trait for each Trait granted or removed.

Harpies

The leader of the harpies receives the additional Status Trait: Influential on attaining the position. As long as the character remains the leader, he cannot lose this Trait permanently.

The harpy automatically gets one temporary Status Trait from each member of the primogen, who bestow these Status Traits to demonstrate their support of the harpies. The harpy, in turn, may use these Traits however she desires, even against the owner. The harpy may remove one permanent Status Trait from a Kindred who has backed out of a boon or is part of a major scandal. There is no cost for doing so, although there must be a grain of truth to the scandal. The harpy must produce some sort of evidence at a gathering of Kindred, at which time the Status Trait is removed.

The harpy may restore Status he has removed at a cost of one temporary Trait per Trait removed.

The leader of the harpies may sponsor lesser harpies by giving another Kindred a Status Trait of his own. Lesser harpies may remove temporary Status just as the head harpy removes permanent Status, although their leader may choose to make such loss permanent.

Whips

Whips have the same powers as the primogen, although they do not gain an additional Status Trait, and their powers may be revoked at any time by the primogen of their clan.

Sheriff

The sheriff gains the additional Status Trait: Feared when he attains the position. While he remains sheriff, he cannot permanently lose this Trait.

The sheriff may demand that any Kindred within the city accompany him for questioning or judgment. Failure to do so causes the offender to lose one permanent Status Trait.

The sheriff is immune to the powers of the keeper of Elysium (those conferred by the position, that is; he must still honor the Traditions).

The sheriff may sponsor deputies by giving another Kindred a Status Trait of his own. These deputies have the same powers as the sheriff, but the sheriff may revoke their authority at any time.

Keeper of Elysium

The keeper of Elysium gains the additional Status Trait: Honorable on attaining the office. As long as the character remains the keeper, he cannot lose this Trait permanently.

Rules. Systems and Drama

210

The keeper may immediately remove one permanent Status Trait from any Kindred he catches breaking the Masquerade. If he does not witness it himself, sufficient evidence must be brought forth. This removal costs the keeper nothing.

Scourge

The scourge gains the additional Status Trait: Feared when he attains the position. While he remains scourge, he cannot permanently lose this Trait.

The scourge can harass, detain or destroy without penalty any Kindred that have been created without permission from the prince, or who have not been presented formally to the prince.

If the scourge discovers another character harboring or abetting vampires created without the prince's permission or who have not been presented formally, he may remove a permanent Status Trait from that character immediately. This removal costs the scourge nothing, but he must present sufficient evidence of the crime to the prince. Should the prince find the evidence insufficient or be unconvinced of the crime, he may return the stripped Status to the character.

• Not all cities have reinstated the office of scourge, and even those that have do not consider it a noble aspiration, but rather a necessary evil born of the Final Nights. PRESTATION

Prestation is the name the Kindred give for the art of using Status, and technically, it is defined as when one Kindred officially becomes indebted to another vampire for services rendered. In reality, however, prestation is far more complicated a system than that, and its rules are enforced with lethal zeal by its participants.

Players should first make it clear who's doing the favor and who's receiving it. The receiver owes a boon to his bestower which must be categorized as a trivial, minor, major, blood or life boon. The players then agree on either an appropriate number of Status Traits which the receiver then gives the bestower, or they may make other arrangements such as loaning Influence Traits rather than Status. Status Traits given in this fashion are known as Boon Traits. The arrangement must be made amenable to all Kindred involved in the deal, and any other stipulations or clauses carried on the boon must be announced then. Kindred who bestow a boon typically only require one thing: "You may not take any physical action against me for the duration of this boon."

The bestower may continue to use the Boon Traits just as he would any other loaned Status Traits. However, the bestower's loss of Boon Traits is only temporary-they are restored at the beginning of the next story. The primary difference between Boon Traits and other loaned Traits is that the original owner of the Traits may not request their return as usual with such Traits; they may only be returned once the boon has been settled.

The only way for a receiver to rid herself of a boon permanently is to repay or ignore the favor. Breaking boons is a serious insult in Kindred society. Ignoring a favor not only costs the receiver Status, but it also risks the ire of the bestower. Regardless of the standing of the bestower, if the receiver ignores a major, blood or life boon, the receiver always loses Status-nobody likes a vampire who brushes off someone who just went through serious hardship on his behalf.

GIVING THE DEVIL HIS DUE: REPAYING PRESTATION DEBTS Getting yourself out of debt is usually an event arranged through roleplaying. Typically, players eliminate boons by returning equivalent favors. However, if the bestower is in sufficient danger, you might pay off your debt by returning only a small favor; indeed, you might even be able to put the original bestower in your debt\! It all rests on a sense of timing and a character's skill at bartering. Other Kindred may resent you for doing so, but in crisis a matter of prestation may seem a small price to pay. A favor is as valuable as the Traits associated with it. Thus a minor boon (two Traits) and a major boon (three Traits) are fair compensation for a life boon (five Traits).

Laws of the Night

Trivial boons are one-time favors, such as protecting someone for the evening, aiding someone with a Discipline or supporting another's political move.

Minor boons can last more than one evening, and they usually entail some sort of inconvenience, such as allowing safe passage through a hostile city, revealing crucial information or disposing of a threat.

Major boons usually entail a great expenditure of time or resources on the bestower's part. The effects of the favor usually last for many game sessions. An example of such a boon would be teaching the receiver a new Discipline, or purchasing a nightclub to serve as the receiver's haven.

Blood boons occur when the bestower places herself in a potentially life- threatening situation in order to help the receiver. Thus the name "blood boon": The bestower is willing to shed her blood for the receiver.

Life boons involve the bestower actively risking her immortal life for the receiver so that the receiver may live.

CAMARILLA JUSTICE

Justice within the city is typically handled by the prince. Most Kindred justice is harsh and abrupt, as infractions of the Traditions almost always carry a sentence of either death or exile, though some princes may insist that an offender be blood bound to himself and/ or the primogen council instead. Only the primogen council can reverse a prince's decision, and it can do so only when they have the political might to back their veto. The primogen council must collectively spend temporary Status Traits equal to the number of permanent Status Traits possessed by the prince to effectively reverse a decision; failure to reach the appropriate amount of Status causes each of the primogen to lose an additional Status Trait.

One of the most important powers of a prince is his ability to call a blood hunt; all the Kindred in a city must aid in tracking down the guilty party and serving the death sentence. Players involved in a blood hunt are reminded not to go overboard while in pursuit, likewise, the player of the character under the blood hunt should realize how heavily the odds are stacked against him and accept the decision with grace.

The only true, across-the-board authorities in the Camarilla are the justicars, mighty Kindred who act as judge, jury and executioner. Elected to a term of 13 years and empowered to enforce Kindred law however they see fit, a justicar's ruling may only be challenged by another justicar. One justicar exists for each of the six Camarilla member clans, and they answer only to the Inner Circle of the Camarilla. A justicar may call a conclave at any time to discuss a problem or handle a matter of justice; all Camarilla vampires in the area are permitted to attend. Kindred sentenced at a conclave may only appeal by requesting an ordeal, which takes the form of an exacting quest executed within a demanding time limit, and failure always results in death.

Justicars typically send representatives, called archons, before arriving themselves. Archons are some of the strongest and most capable Kindred around, and a city hosting an archon is advised to do whatever she asks and do it quickly, as an archon can easily call for others of her kind or even for her justicar. If an archon "disappears" while on assignment, an investigation by powerful Kindred is soon to follow. THE SABBAT

SABBAT STATUS TRAITS

Status within the Sabbat is useful only within the sect, just as Camarilla Status

is only useful within the Camarilla. Status does not function between sects because they despise each other so strongly that any Status the other would possess would have little or no effect on their antagonists. The Traits themselves also differ, because the Sabbat holds different values to be worthy of admiration than the Camarilla does.

Rules, Systems and Drama

Sabbat Status Traits: Battle-Scarred, Blessed, Blooded, Confirmed, Devoted, Enlightened, Enriched, Feared, Hunted, Infamous, Initiated, Loyal, Ominous, Proven, Respected and Undefeated.

Troupes should feel free to invent new Status Traits to suit their own stories and the reputations of the characters receiving the Traits.

Vampires who have not yet acquired the Sabbat Status Trait: Initiated cannot have or gain any Status until they acquire that Trait. SABBAT STATIONS

Sabbat hierarchy stems from the Regent, the leader of the Sabbat. There is only one Regent at a time, and she is advised by prisci (singular: priscus) and cardinals. Beneath them are archbishops, who control a single city. Within the city, bishops act more or less equivalently to primogen. Paladins/templars act as bodyguards and enforcers for Sabbat leaders; they are forbidden to join the Black Hand, but are formidable nonetheless. Each pack has a pack leader, who commands and inspires her packmates; a pack priest, who leads rituals and ensures that Sabbat rites are properly observed; and an abbot, who oversees the safety of the communal haven and other day-to-day matters.

GAINING AND LOSING SABBAT STATUS

Most Sabbat are fiercely protective of Status accumulated as a result of deeds they've performed, and they tend to take attempts to remove such recognition very badly. Sabbat may remove Traits from fellow pack members by reaching a pack consensus; if the entire pack feels a removal is necessary, then the Trait is simply scratched off. Traits based on past experience such as Blooded cannot be removed unless they were achieved by the pack as a whole, but ones based on pack opinion like Proven can be removed easily. Status may also be removed by those with more Status Traits and a higher rank within the Sabbat. Superiors should beware of the great loyalty that packs feel toward their leaders; removing Status might cause a pack to recognize their leader's failings, but it just as easily might cause them to mutiny.

Characters may gain Status in identical ways to how it is lost: pack consensus or a decision from higher up. Individual high-ranking characters who wish to award Status must possess at least five permanent Status Traits themselves; packs seeking to praise their comrade must have a group total of at least seven permanent Status Traits. In order for the pack to award Status, each member of the party must spend one Status Trait. For every two Traits spent, the newly elected character may gain one Status Trait, as long as no more than three new Traits are gained in addition to his current Status. SABBAT RITUALS

USING RITUALSINA GAME SETTING

The Sabbat places great importance on rituals, since they bolster morale and reinforce the doctrines of the sect. Rituals within the Sabbat also serve as tests. Many were created for the sole purpose of testing the strength and endurance of the warriors involved, and the Sabbat respects and encourages this with its many rituals.

KINDS OF RITUALS

The rituals of the Sabbat can be divided into three basic groups: the Auctoritas Ritae, the Ignoblis Ritae and the customs of each particular pack. All Sabbat practice the very traditional Auctoritas Ritae. Most packs, depending on their particular pack makeup and goals at the time, practice the Ignoblis Ritae in different ways. Each pack also develops its own customs, which often take ritual forms and change with time and battles fought.

AUCTORITAS BITAE

This list of Auctoritas Ritae is, by no means, exhaustive. It merely lists the ones most common to and useful in Laws of the Night games.

The Creation Rites

Laws of the Night

The Vaulderie Monomacy

Sermons of Caine

War Parties-This ritual occurs when two or more packs go on the warpath to acquire the blood of a Camarilla elder.

Wild Hunt-The Wild Hunt is the Sabbat equivalent of the blood hunt. Archbishops usually call Wild Hunts, but packs have been known to spread the word on their own.

Games of Instinct

IGNOBLIS RITAE

These rituals change with each pack that performs them.

Acceptance Rites-Packs use this ritual to accept a new pack leader or priest,

or to welcome a new recruit to her new standing as True Sabbat and to award Status Traits on their members.

Initiation Rites

Welcome and Farewell Rites

Blessings - This ritual can be used at any time to bless the pack or an individual who has a specific quest. The pack usually receives a Blessing before fights, invading enemy territory or going after a desired object or individual. Blessings often occur during the Vaulderie since blood is required.

Call to Caine Confession

Ghost Dance

Jyhad Rites

Oaths of FealtyThis rite is incorporated into other Sabbat rites, most commonly the Vaulderie. After passing the chalice around the first time, each individual pauses before drinking from it and promises loyalty to the pack. She then drinks and passes the chalice.

Sacrificial Rites Pack Creed

Thanksgiving Ritual Sunrise Service

Rituals of Justice - These are rituals the Sabbat isn't supposed to perform without Sabbat officials, but most packs do anyway. Often the pack gathers in two lines, with the accused bound and laid between them; the accused must then answer questions posed by the pack leader or anyone the pack leader permits to speak. The pack will either agree he is guilty and punish him as they see fit, or if they determine that the accused is innocent, the accuser is normally punished in his place.

USING THE IGNOBLIS BITAE

The Ignoblis Ritae can be used as often or as little as the players desire, and players should also feel free to create their own rituals for the pack to use. Storytellers may allow Trait gain in the form of temporary bonus Traits to packs who observe certain rituals. For example, a pack that performs a ritual of strength before entering battle might receive an additional Physical Trait for the duration of the anticipated contest. Gift Traits must always be Storyteller-approved, and they last only until the end of a specific task. However, use of Gift Traits is an excellent way of encouraging use of the Ignoblis Ritae, provided it does not upset play balance.

FUNAND GAMES

Of course, all slaughter of the infidel servants of the Antediluvians and no play makes the Sabbat dull vampires, and it should come as no surprise that the Sabbat have

Rules, Systers and Drama

223

invented many ways to "relax" and enjoy their power. The Sabbat typically cause a great deal of mayhem when they decide to have fun, and packs should feel free to come up all manner of creative games that express their pack's sense of humor (or horror).

Note: Not all packs enjoy games, and given the frankly inhuman nature of these games, players should never be forced to participate if they find it too unsettling out of character. Of course, all the Mind's Eye Theatre rules of conduct and safety still apply (more strictly than normal, if anything).

EXPANDED RULES FOR AUCTORITAS RITAE

CREATION RITES

Ritualistic as they are, Storytellers are encouraged to keep the game mechanics to a minimum during the Creation Rites, and focus instead on making the process as vivid and harrowing as possible.

However, for those in need of them, some rules are provided here. The Creation Rites take a minimum of one hour to perform, during which time the characters involved cannot interact with anyone else. The idea is to give characters a sense of having been through a grueling ordeal and appreciate the effort it takes to initiate a member.

One of the Sabbat must knock the prospective member unconscious with a blow to the head; then the would-be Sabbat is Embraced and buried. The pack waits to see if the recruit is strong enough to tear her way out of the earth. At the end of the hour, the potential Sabbat must claw her way out, winning two out of the three Simple Tests against the Storyteller in order to rise from the grave; only one success means the vampire is stuck halfway. The character may make one retest for every Physical Trait she is willing to spend, and successes needed to climb out are cumulative. The other players are not allowed to see the results of the test out of character; either they see a hand emerge, or they begin to wonder what's taking so long.

Packs are advised to have a fresh blood on hand, because newly Embraced Cainites emerge completely bloodless and crazed. They will attack every blood source they see, and they will not stop drinking until they have filled their blood pool to capacity. Until that time, they cannot be the target of Mental or Social Challenges. Furthermore, the Creation Rites give all new Sabbat a temporary derangement of some kind; this derangement typically lasts only a few sessions, although a particularly traumatic experience might cause a more long-lasting illness.

After the Emergence

Once all strong new Sabbat members have fed, the pack performs the Vaulderie to cement their loyalty. It is usually the duty of a particular vampire's sire to begin instructing the younger Kindred in the ways of Sabbat doctrine, Discipline use, and any other information the neonate might need to know. After becoming Sabbat, there is no returning to her old ways; former blood bonds are broken, and a new, more powerful one has taken their place. VAULDERIE AND VINCULUM

Of all the Auctoritas Ritae, the Vaulderie constitutes the most important ritual the Sabbat practices by far. All vampires who share in the Vaulderie are effectively blood bound to each other, but the effects are deeper still than any regular blood bond.

Vaulderie Rules

Find a chalice, cup, bowl or some other physical representation thereof (hats do nicely in a pinch) and dig around for those Blood Traits.

Each character present should place between two and four Blood Traits into the chalice. It is the privilege of the pack leader or vampire of highest rank to put in the highest number of Traits, to exceed the number of participants. The pack leader or priest then mixes the Traits around and passes the chalice back around the circle.

Laws of the Night

22.4

Each individual randomly draws the same number of Traits he or she contributed. The individuals (indicated by some mark on the Blood Trait) on your ritually acquired Blood Traits are those for whom you feel a heightened bond for the duration of the night or until the Vaulderie is performed again.

A Clarification of the Heightened Bond

Sometimes, as a result of the Vaulderie, you wind up with a blood pool consisting of numerous Blood Traits from other characters. In such cases, the predominance of certain character's Blood Traits over others' effectively increases your Vinculum rating to them one notch: Once your Vinculum rating rises to a certain level, you must spend Willpower to even plot against the person. You may not harm, betray or fail to defend these individuals intentionally. An agreed Monomacy is the only exception.

Erase the markings on all acquired Blood Traits and replace them with your own. In order to plot against someone for whom the character has a Vinculum rating of 3 or higher, the character must spend one Willpower Trait. In order to plot against someone for whom the character has a Vinculum rating of 6 or over, the character must spend two Willpower Traits.

To attempt the destruction of someone for whom the character has a Vinculum rating at all, the character must burn two Willpower. Without the burned Will- power, the character finds herself realizing the person she hates is loyal to the sect and therefore worthy of respect.

Players should remember that the Vinculum is a full-scale blood bond; this sense of unity is the reason the Sabbat has been so successful, since packs operate without the backstabbing and infighting common to the Camarilla.

Monomacy, Punishment and Vinculum

If you have a Vinculum rating of 6 or higher toward the person whom you want to fight in Monomacy, you must burn one Willpower Trait to initiate the Monomacy contest. Whenever a challenger loses a fight within the rules of Monomacy, regardless of whether or not he burned Willpower initially, he must spend one more Willpower Trait to continue the contest. There is no cost to the defender, since she is obligated to accept the challenge regardless of the Vinculum.

If you are punishing someone in your pack for whom you have a Vinculum rating of 6 or higher and someone in your pack protests, you must engage in a Social Challenge. If you lose, you must burn a Willpower Trait to continue the punishment.

MONOMACY

Sometimes there is no other choice but combat when a disagreement between Sabbat becomes too fierce. As indicated before, most Monomacy contests are battles to Final Death, although any conditions can be agreed on by the participants. As the loser of a Monomacy contest can easily stand to forfeit her soul to diablerie, it is not a process undertaken lightly by even the most warlike Sabbat. Players should keep in mind that, no matter what happens during the "no holds barred" combat of the Monomacy, all the rules of Mind's Eye Theatre still apply.

Rules Systems and Drama

225

Once Donata had outlined the plan. Kevin had retreated to one of his favorite haunts, an ancient mausoleum not far from the projects. Donata assured him that Peter would be along rapidly, ready to meet his demise.

Feeling uncharacteristically morose, Kevin made his way along the flagstones, rubbing behind the cars of one of his hellhounds. The ghouled dog whined at him, desirous of of his blood, but it wasn't yet due for another feeding. Still, the powerfully built hounds had an unmistakable strength and ferocity due to the power of his vampiric vitae. They certainly guarded his territory well.

more

Atop the mausoleum, Kevin reached into a large nook behind a loose stone in the wall. Carefully, he pulled out a plastic bag, tied shut to keep out water. With a deft movement he opened the bag, rummaging about to remove a guitar. It wasn't his favorite. but when the mood struck him, he'd play in the graveyard, strumming for the hounds and the night. The hounds, in turn, dissuaded the curious from looking about the mausoleum, and kept his few possessions stored there safe for emergencies.

Replacing the bag, Kevin leaned against the wall, sliding down to a comfortable seat. His hands fitted comfortably about the guitar: a few years of undying practice had only improved his once mediocre skill, and now he could pluck out fair tunes and improvise as the muse came. Thinking again about Donata and how much he wanted to strengthen their partnership, he plucked idly at the strings of the guitar. Melody c as he sought notes to complement her lovely form and personality. Why he'd ever thought of standing against her, he didn't know.....

one

came

someone

As Kevin plucked at the guitar strings, something tugged at the strings of his heart. Ricco, of the hellhounds, growled for a moment, sniffing at the air. Then, he settled back on his haunches. Kevin looked up. feeling uncomfortable, as if watched him from the darkness of the cemetery. Although Kindred claimed that ghosts haunted the grounds of the dead. Kevin was sure that his little spot was secure. Still, something restless seemed to reach out, on the border of and action.

some

grave

His hand coming down in a strident chord, Kevin's thoughts turned inward, and the puppeteering strings woven about him by Donata's ancient prowess suddenly changed hands. Relieved of the burden of an unnatural love for Donata. Kevin clashed out a harsh and discordant sound on the guitar. He had some new respect for the woman

she was

his

own

a consummate manipulator and a powerful elder - but he knew now that she'd turned will against him. He'd be more careful in the future and she wouldn't suspect. if he played his hand properly. A bit of her blood had perhaps turned his mood and She's turning you into a slave\! screamed in part of his mind but he was still his own

He'd go along with her plans for but they'd

serve his ends.

man.

now,

CHAPTER SIX: STORYTELLING

ARE YOU A STORYTELLER?

That's good, because this chapter is for you\! This section details essential knowledges for all Storytellers, such as how to create a story from scratch, how to survive your first game and how to manage an ongoing chronicle. You'll learn the basics of establishing mood, creating believable settings and laying down the law with troublesome players. Experienced Storytellers with a few chronicles under their belts will benefit as well from learning how to integrate new players into an existing game, breathe new life into a faltering story and manage the relationship between the game and the real world. Most importantly, this chapter gives you the straight skinny on Storytelling-who should try it, how it works, why it's hard and why it's the most rewarding challenge Masquerade has to offer. TAKING UP THE MANTLE

Storytelling is the toughest gig in roleplaying. Paradoxically, it's also the most satisfying. Before you decide to plunge in with both feet, you should be aware of the magnitude of the challenge before you, and consider how you will address it. Many first- time Storytellers become disenchanted because no one told them how difficult the role can become. No one told them how much of their free time being a Storyteller would eat up, how discouraging it can be to hear their players tell them they are bored with their plots or how bothersome it could be to deal with problem players. But no one ever told them how unbelievably fulfilling the role can be. No one told them about the creative thrill of taking a story idea that's floating in their heads and giving it life, watching it entertain, puzzle and challenge their friends, then hearing their players talk about it enthusiastically for weeks or years after it's over.

Realize now that while many players will engage in a game session once a week or once a month, Storytellers usually deal with some aspect of an ongoing chronicle nearly ever day. You may well find the game pervading your life in ways you never imagined. Over- enthusiastic players will call you late at night to talk about the new ritual they want to research. Plot elements will pop into your imagination at the most inconvenient moments, Laws of the Night

228

demanding to be recorded before they are forgotten. Dinner gets cold while you try to input the latest downtime information into your new spreadsheet software.

Storyteller duties and responsibilities real and imagined will devour an incredible share of your free time if you permit them. Even if you excel at balancing your commitments and managing your time wisely, you will find yourself spending a greater period of time on creating and running the game than even some of your more fanatical players. A part of every day will go into the game, even if you are only thinking about it idly while driving to work in the morning. The day of the game session itself will be one of preparing props, answering last-minute questions, approving character sheets and equip ment cards, explaining to a player for the 19th time why he can't play his Assamite Methuselah and putting final touches on the plot elements you will introduce. The day after the game session you will be tired, but hopefully satisfied with the night's events.

Being a Storyteller can do some surprising things to your blood pressure. Sometimes nothing will go completely as you expected or planned. Key players won't show up, other players will invite their friends along and ask if it's okay for them to play just for the night, your Narrators will take leave of their senses and make inexplicable rulings that threaten to bring your plot crashing down around your ears, your players will go off on bizarre tangents or ignore crucial clues and you will feel suddenly and painfully ill.

The bad news is that as tiring as all this can sometimes seem, it comes with the territory. The good news is that it's all manageable, and the end product can be all the more worthwhile for it. You can learn to minimize the game's intrusion into your life, to become an expert at coping with the unexpected, to deal with your frustrations without taking them out on anyone, and to reap the very real rewards Storytelling offers. Remember: It's a genuine pleasure to run a game and witness your players' excitement and enjoyment of your creative efforts firsthand. Some players won't be at all aware of the sheer amount of effort you expend on being a good Storyteller, but many will, and they'll appreciate it. They might even thank you for it. BUILDING STORIES

Storytelling is less like engineering and more like experimental chemistry. It isn't a matter of adhering to accepted procedures, choosing well-known materials and assembling them according to a precise mathematical equation. It's more like approaching each new project as an experiment that combines familiar and unfamiliar ingredients to create a completely new compound. The results may differ wildly from your original plan, but this won't always be a bad thing. Part of the joy of Storytelling is the fact that each new story is an adventure into uncharted territory, because you simply cannot predict with greater than average accuracy where your efforts will take you. Regardless of the outcome, however, each project - each story-will teach you something you didn't know when you started, and every one will become another experience that will make you a good Storyteller.

Every Storyteller finds her own style when crafting stories. Some are comfortable making thumbnail sketches of a basic plot, rounding up some players and starting to play immediately; others prefer to brood over theme and scope, make extensive plot outlines and spend hours with their players over character creation alone. While it's generally true that you will be rewarded with a smoother game session if you plan and prepare adequately, there is no one "true" way to create and tell stories--you will find your own methods and your own voice when bringing your ideas to life.

Storytellers familiar with Vampire: The Masquerade who now wish to try a live- action game will notice a significant difference between the two types of narration immediately: The materials at hand are markedly different. The story universe of Vampire: The Masquerade is the collective fabrication of the Storyteller and the players

Storytelling

220

\-the settings, scenes and events of each game session exist only within their collective imagination. But during a Masquerade game, the story becomes flesh, as it were. The characters are present at a particular physical location, and they (to a greater or lesser degree) actually perform their actions as time passes normally. Perhaps more impor- tantly, the Storyteller no longer has the luxury of manipulating the entire story secretly at a moment's notice. She can no longer describe each and every scene in minute detail. She must rely on a few well-chosen sentences and suggestive props to convey the appropriate sensory details to the players.

Fortunately, a good Masquerade game features one important characteristic that is less prevalent in standard game sessions: The players will take the key ingredients the Storyteller provides and create many of their own stories. Together, the Storyteller and players realize a roleplaying experience that is more intense than most traditional tabletop games.

KEY STORY INGREDIENTS

Assemble your story ingredients like a master chef-or a mad scientist, if you prefer-paying careful attention to the type, form and shape of each before adding it to your creation. Careless selection of important story elements has led to the early death of more than one game, and you must learn to separate the truly good ideas from those that sound good on paper. It isn't always easy to tell one from the other, but exercising your own best judgment is often the means to learn to distinguish between them. Remember, however, that in this endeavor, experimentation will often produce results more interesting than you might expect\!

THEME

The theme is the organizing principle of your story. It is the unifying idea of your story, the one or two word description of what your story is about on its most basic level. The theme is the question your story answers throughout its course, and it is the means by which you will convey its ideas and messages. It is absolutely essential that you select a theme, or more than one, if your story is to rise above the merely common and become truly interesting and entertaining.

Themes should pervade all aspects of your story-setting, mood, plot-but they should remain less than obvious nevertheless. Themes are more effective as subtle suggestions rather than blatant statements. Hide the theme, cache it away within the tale to be discovered as the characters interact with the story itself. Don't worry about making the theme too subtle: It will make its presence felt soon enough through the story elements you introduce to the characters.

Here are some good themes for Masquerade stories, as well as some thematic questions they raise during play:

Love-How does love affect our actions, thoughts and moods? What would we sacrifice for love? Can love be retrieved after it is lost? Does love endure?

Hate-How does hate manifest itself in our lives? How does the seed of hate take root, and to what acts does it drive us?

Betrayal Why do we betray the people and things we love or that we are sworn to protect? What price does betrayal exact on our consciences and on our souls? How does it feel to be betrayed?

Revenge Is revenge better hot or cold? How does revenge distort our perceptions and provoke our emotions?

Rebellion What prompts us to rebel? How do we choose the targets of rebellion? Is rebellion always necessary to effect change? Can rebellion occur without violence and bloodshed?

Laws of the Night

Morality-Who or what determines mortality? Who are the keepers of morals and ethics? Are these things even necessary? Are there morals that transcend individuals, cities, nations, worlds?

Chaos- Why do things tend to fall apart? Doesn't anything last? Is chaos sometimes necessary? How do we handle chaos?

MOOD

Mood is the general tone of the story, the underlying emotions you want your players to feel as they interact with the tale. Mood is one of the most difficult story elements to capture, and it is all the more rewarding for its elusive nature. Don't tell your players what the mood you are trying to convey is, but let them feel it in every aspect of your tale.

Think of the mood as your story's state of mind, and then ask yourself some questions about what emotions you want your story to reflect. Is the story pessimistic or hopeful? Apprehensive or confident? Angry or calm? Consider your theme and choose moods that seem to compliment it. The entire range of human emotion is available for your selection, and you need not restrict yourself to only one mood for the duration of your story. Variability of mood is especially important to remember when crafting and running longer stories, because mood can be as fluid as the plot and pacing demands.

Good moods for Masquerade stories:

Covetous-Everyone and everything in the story wants something. Intrigue and politics are the order of the night as the Kindred wheel and deal, scheme and plot to obtain the things they desire.

Desperate-Characters are reckless in their excitement or despair, willing to take greater risks in order to achieve some goal. No one should feel they can afford to sit back and relax as events demand drastic and extreme reactions. This mood is very appropriate to a city under siege from an enemy force, or when a dire threat proves more powerful than the characters expected.

Brooding Everything is dark and ominous, perhaps even somber. The unexpressed dread hangs cloyingly in the air, filling everyone with a feeling of waiting for something important but unknown to happen. This mood is tough to sustain for long, but it can be very dramatic.

Mysterious - No one is what she seems, and nothing is as it appears to be. Enigmas and puzzles abound, each merely scratching the surface of the next. Charac ters become paranoid as they delve into layer after layer of strange revelation.

Festive-Celebration is in the air as the characters relax and let their hair down, as it were. Everyone's inhibitions are lessened by the positive atmosphere, and they feel more inclined to enjoy themselves and take new chances. This mood is a good one to invoke at the beginning of a new story, particularly when you plan to yank the rug out from under the characters' feet soon after.

Decadent-The world is decaying, falling to ruin, giving simultaneous rise to new vision and appalling debauchery. Characters must decide what path to tread as their familiar surroundings deteriorate around them.

Exciting-The action never stops as the characters contend with a never-ending cavalcade of threats, enemies and challenges. Never allow anyone to relax long enough to catch their breath. This mood is difficult to sustain, but it can give your players the roleplaying equivalent of a roller-coaster ride they will never forget.

Bitter-Everyone is angry about something and has his own ax to grind. Characters are tense and irritable, and they lash out at everyone and everything around them frequently. Individuals can progress from close friends to avowed enemies swiftly, and events that seem innocuous at first often take on savage, angry tones.

Storytelling

PLOT

If the theme and mood are the story's heart and soul, then the plot is its body. Plot is the progression of events that takes the story from its first game session to its last, and every place in between. Your plot will be initially the result of the events you plan and introduce, but your players will also make a substantial contribution to the plot as they enact their characters' efforts to achieve their nightly and long-term goals.

Where do plots come from? Most good plots start as seeds of ideas planted in your imagination that germinate when you learn to tap your own creativity. Television, movies, magazines, novels and newspapers all provide potential plot ideas. The trick is learning to recognize the useful ideas and creating stories from them. It isn't easy at first, and sometimes it's harder than you'd like, but it's something you must teach yourself to do if you want to be a successful Storyteller.

Effective plotting means knowing your players and those things, in particular, that hold their interest. Players' attention spans vary tremendously. You will be able to amuse some players easily for months on end with little more than the story equivalent of a ball of string. Such players are the ideal recipients of long-term plot threads and subplots because they will dog them for long periods of time with remarkable determination. Other players, however, are more focused on immediate concerns, and they require a new ball of string every game session (sometimes more than once in the same session), lest they grow bored very quickly. For these players, any plot that endures beyond one or two game sessions becomes a hopeless, confusing tangle of unwanted detail. You will want to offer plots and introduce plot threads that cater to both player types, a demanding task but necessary to provide something for everyone to enjoy.

Some plots, no matter how carefully planned, won't take you where you thought you were going. The plot will become quite complicated surprisingly often, espe cially when characters' individual schemes clash. You will recognize this divergence when it happens by the confusion it generates. Don't panic: Confusion of this sort is both a help and a hindrance. Confusion lures and attracts those players who like to be involved in as many plots as possible. Other players react badly to confusion, and they will cease to participate when a plot gets too complex for them to unravel.

Remember, plots need not be tortuously complex to pique the interest of your players: Often the best plots are those that are simple frameworks to which you and your players can attach more complex ideas as the story proceeds. Consider these basic plot summaries and where they could lead your story:

Might Makes Right-A Kindred (a player's character or Narrator character) has seized power in the city through force. All other characters must decide how best to deal with this new regime. Should they rebel against it or begin jockeying for status and position?

To the Manor Born-Some Kindred feel they were created for the sole purpose of ruling their brethren. They exist to make themselves the leaders of their kind, by hook or by crook. Such individuals pursue power and its trappings relentlessly, creating a vortex of political machinations and social intrigue that threatens to enmesh everyone and everything in its path.

Invasion-Welcome to a city in dire peril, a city under siege. Things look black for the characters in this sort of tale: They begin the story deep in the hole and things get worse from there. The story could revolve around a Camarilla city besieged by the Sabbat, a Sabbat-held city threatened by invading archons or a location held by either sect that is facing a threat from the Lupines (see Laws of the Wild for details on creating Garou antagonists). This type of story caters to players who prefer their action fast and physical, offering lots of combat and violence, both planned and unplanned.

Laws of the Night

€32

The Truth Is Out There-A mysterious force, be it a vengeful or mischievous poltergeist, puzzles and bedevils the characters who must determine the nature of the supernatural entity and either come to terms with it or put it to rest. This plot is particularly good for smaller troupes, as the mystery can lose its impact quickly when shared among too many characters.

Murder Most Foul-This thread is the classic "whodunnit" scenario with a Cainite twist. The deceased is usually a figure of power or authority, such as a prince, bishop, primogen or other influential vampire, and the circumstances of her death are obscure. It's up to the characters to determine who killed her and why, and what it has to do with them. Murder plots are useful long-term backdrops for more immediate subplots.

Civil Blood-Strife and unrest are part and parcel of Cainite society, whether one glides through the sophisticated salons of the Camarilla or courts death with a Sabbat raiding party. Tensions rise as rumors of Gehenna circulate and become ever more insistent, and more than a few bold souls decide that the time to make their move is now.

SETTING

The setting of your story is as much a character as the fictitious individuals who populate it. Before choosing your setting, consider your theme and mood. Are there settings that will enhance or detract from them? It's difficult to convey a brooding or somber mood when your setting is a circus or a car wash.

Setting your story in familiar territory is a good option: It's fun to pretend that your home town is populated by vampires, ghouls and other creatures of the night, to imagine what your city's institutions and bureaucracy might be like if infiltrated by vampires. If you want to try this, begin by obtaining some accurate information about your city government and municipal services, and pass them through the Gothic-Punk filter. Then choose some physical locations in the area that you want to replicate in the game. The advantage to setting your story in your own backyard is that you'll have minimal research to complete before you can begin playing; the disadvantage is that your players might know your city as well as, or better than, you do.

Remember that your stories aren't restricted to familiar stomping grounds. Feel free to set the action in another city altogether. Libraries, bookstores and online sources will yield a wealth of information on nearly any municipality of any size, include population figures, government structures and handy maps. Don't even feel obligated to tell your story in the modern nights-vampires have existed for many centuries, and you can achieve some splendid effects by staging the game in the historical period of your choice. Some themes and moods that work well in a modern setting can be even more effective in other places and times. Experienced troupes often find great enjoyment in moving their story from the familiar world to one in either the distant pass or even the future. Each of these periods offer unique story opportunities: Antiquity (ancient Greece or Rome), the Dark Ages (see The Long Night), the Renaissance, the Victorian Age, the Wild West, the Roaring Twenties and the Cold War.

PACING

The value of pacing becomes clear when you accept, as you must, the Storyteller's axiom that nothing will go exactly as planned. Characters will sometimes miss vital clues for no apparent good reason and then spend the remainder of the evening scratching their hands as the session drags on to a helplessly late hour. Characters will also cooperate with one another in a frighteningly efficient manner from time to time, solving all the puzzles and conundrums that you thought would take them the entire night to understand. More occasionally the players will feel completely

Storytelling

overwhelmed by information and so uncertain of what to do next, that they will cease taking an active role in the story altogether.

You can mitigate, if not avoid, these eventualities by giving due thought to your stories' pacing. Try to decide at what rate the story should progress before the game session starts. Fast-paced games throw new situations at the characters throughout the night, forcing them to deal with each new challenge as it presents itself and leaving little time for them to assess the big picture before the night is done. Slower-paced games lend themselves more to extended communications between characters, not to mention more subtle intrigues and plots. You may want to vary the tempo of a game, starting slowly and getting faster as the session progresses, or vice versa.

You can help yourself pace stories more successfully by learning to narrate spontaneously. That doesn't mean you shouldn't prepare adequately for game sessions, but rather that you should prepare yourself for the necessity of providing plot information on the fly. Characters will often ask questions for which you don't have a prepared answer, but which nevertheless deserve a response in order to keep the action flowing. Try to give answers that satisfy the characters' need for information but which will also advance with-or at least not contradict-your plot. An unexpected lull in the game's activity can be the perfect opportunity to introduce a new plot thread that you cleverly prepared for just such an occasion. Alternately, you can reintroduce a plotline that the characters thought resolved in order to keep the game session going without a break in the action.

Although off-the-cuff Storytelling is essential to any successful game, good pacing is roughly equal parts planning and improvisation. Start each night's game with at least a rough idea of the speed at which you want events to occur and where you think the story will go. Even if it doesn't get there because something unexpected happened, you'll be prepared to deal with it if you give adequate thought to pacing. Knowing the general direction in which the story is headed helps you recognize when the pace is becoming too fast or too slow, and it gives you clues about how to adjust it in ways that best suit your players and plot. You must be sensitive to the ebb and flow of the story, watching carefully for periods of too much inactivity or hopeless chaos.

Forced to choose between these extremes-too fast or too slow-opt for too fast. Stories with a pace that is too slow lead to player boredom and frustration more frequently than the former. Prepare in advance a couple of plot threads that you can introduce in case the story starts to slow unexpectedly. These threads can include elements as simple as a police patrolman stumbling on the characters' gathering place, or as complex as the unexpected appearance of a long-lost magical artifact. If you're really in doubt about what to do in order to fix the pacing, ask your players what their characters want to do next. Listen carefully to their answers and try to tailor your responses appropriately. This tactic gives you room to breathe and think, and (more importantly) it gives you a sense of why the action has fallen off. STORY CONSIDERATIONS

The story considerations will generally be easier for you to pin down than the key ingredients, mostly because their impact on the story is less immediate. If you do your homework and build your stories with due care, you'll find that these story elements fall into place more easily.

SCALE

The scale of your story is its relative size, the number of players who want to play. You can run stories for as few as two players or as many as 200, but stories for 20 to 30 players are the most common. The scale of many stories is often predetermined

Laws of the Night

by the number of players involved when you begin, but it can and will change. Players bring their friends, spouses and significant others into the game, and some players will drop out for various reasons. Such unexpected vagaries don't mean that your story's scale is at the mercy of chance - you can influence it in either direction. Actively recruiting more players will increase the scale, and getting rid of some players will decrease it. Some Storytellers establish a player cap, which is the maximum number of players they will allow to participate in any given story. The primary scale considerations should be the number of players you can comfortably handle, and the planned duration of your chronicle.

Scale can get out of hand if you are the only Storyteller and the number of players grows too rapidly or becomes too large. When you see this occurring, get some help. If you don't, your game and players will suffer as you try to handle all the Storyteller responsibilities by yourself. Ask for some volunteers from among your players and make them your Narrators. A good rule of thumb is one Narrator for every 10 players, depending on your group dynamic. Some very large games have several Storytellers, each in charge of a different aspect of the game (main plot, subplots, Influences, antagonists, etc.). Remember that the larger your scale, the more broad and encompassing your plot should be in order to allow every player the potential to become involved.

Give some special thought to scale if you are running a plot that will require many months of continuous play to complete. Spend some time thinking about how scale changes will affect your long-range plots before you start them. Sudden or dramatic changes in scale can wreak havoc on long-term plots, requiring you to do some fancy Storytelling footwork to repair the damage and keep everything on track. Stories for extended chronicles must be more flexible in order to withstand the changes in scale that will inevitably occur as some players drop out and others arrive. How will your story be affected by the sudden departure of several players midway through the tale? Can your story cope if a particular clan or sect sees unexpected growth over the course of the action, or if you gain players at a rate faster than anticipated? If the outcome of your plot hinges on only one character, think about what you will do if that character's player is suddenly obligated to leave the game, or if that character dies unexpectedly before the story's climax. Planning a few "escape routes" for your long-term plots will help you handle scale changes in stride.

Scope

Your story's scope describes the range of possibility for character action and impact-essentially, it's what is at stake in your story. Are you telling a low-key tale wherein the characters are concerned primarily with their own personal agendas? Or are you planning to give the characters the chance to save an entire city from some dire outside threat? Scale can modify your story's scope to a degree - it's easier to tell the story of an entire city of vampires if one has enough players to represent them --but in the end, the stakes can be as big or small as you want.

Shorter stories often work better with correspondingly narrower scopes, but extended chronicles can handle wide variations in scope. The key for long-range stories is balance: Vary the scope of your games from story to story to give your players variety and a sense that their characters exist in an active setting. Saving the world story after story grows tiresome, as does fighting continuously over who will be the next prince of the city, so change the value of story consequences and rewards periodically to keep things from stagnating. This need is especially strong if any of your players are involved in such long-term plots as breaking a blood bond, seeking

Storytelling

235

Golconda or finding a long-lost sire. The scope of the story is already established at a more personal level for these characters, and their stake in the overarching plot will increase or diminish as it affects their agenda.

PLAYER INPUT

One of the simplest, but most often overlooked, steps you can take to prepare for a new story is to ask your players what they want. Do not underestimate the value that soliciting player feedback can have on your story's success\! All too often a Storyteller conceives what he believes is a fabulous new idea for a chronicle, busies himself with many hours of detailed preparations, and presents it to his players, only to find they are not interested in that particular type of story.

Key questions to ask your players before embarking on a new Storytelling effort: What kind of story would you like to play in-do you prefer political intrigue or combat and mayhem?

What sorts of plots would you like to see in the story?

• What power level should the story have should all the players be of roughly equivalent power and experience, or should they be of varying power levels?

What should take precedence the story, the characters or the rules? Should the characters be members of the Camarilla, the Sabbat, mixed sects or unaligned?

THE STAGES

Good stories have definitive stages-opening, climax and denouement. These points are your story's milestones, the markers which tell you where your players are in the story and what should happen to them next.

Opening

Lavish plenty of attention and detail on the opening of your story\! Too many Mind's Eye Theatre stories start with all the characters sitting or standing around in a room, with no exploration of how they got there or why they are together. Set the time, place and conditions of the opening scene by distributing common information that every character knows before the game begins. Are the characters all present because each received an anonymous invitation? Are they gathered in an art gallery to view a new work by the Toreador primogen's latest protEgE? Are they meeting to mourn the death of their pack leader and begin finding out who killed her? However sketchy, a briefing will allow your players to plunge directly into the story and begin roleplaying at once.

Climax

When the characters have discovered all they need to know to face final revelation, solve the key mystery or otherwise resolve the main plot, the story is at its climax. This is your story's high point, when the end toward which your players and their characters have been striving is in sight, and therefore the tension will be at its highest. If the opening was sufficiently intriguing and the players were enthusiastic, you need do little to help the story reach its climax. But if the players are confused or missed vital clues, you or your Narrators may find it necessary to take a more direct hand in guiding the action to its conclusion, perhaps by distributing more clues or somehow reminding characters of information they should recall. If you find that you must interfere in order to begin the climax, try to do so in such a way that does not rob the players of the joy and satisfaction of accomplishment.

Denouement

The story winds down after its climax. The excitement and tension abates, and all the story pieces (most of them, at least) come together at last to form an

Laws of the Night

€30

identifiable, coherent whole. Try to manage the resolution so that your players feel they have accomplished something, but are still interested in future stories. Just because the story is over doesn't necessarily mean the players learned all there was to learn about the main plot-sometimes just discovering another piece of the bigger puzzle gives the players sufficient motivation to continue.

You will find that your players will often want to gather immediately after the game session ends, to talk about the game and plan for future sessions. Masquerade players usually see only a few pieces of the story each time they play, and it's fun for them to learn more about the big picture. Players enjoy relating the night's events from their own point of view, and hearing the other players' version of events, too. You should keep one ear open at these wrap-up gatherings, both for news of exceptional roleplaying and potential plot complications.

SOMETHING FOR EVERYONE

The best stories are collaborative efforts between players and Storyteller. The Storyteller provides the players with an interesting backdrop and framework, and the players build on it. You must give your players ample materials with which to do their part, however, or they will grow bored with the story rapidly. Try to make your major plots broad enough in their appeal that they will interest nearly every player in the story, perhaps by giving them a vested interest in the outcome. Even if you are able to do so for most of your players, you may find that it's difficult to shoehorn some characters into a specific plot. When that happens, try to develop a minor plot or subplot for them instead.

Some of the tools you can use to ensure that all characters get something to do are character histories and subplots.

BLAST FROM THE PAST

All characters in your story have pasts, which can prove an essential Storytelling aid. Encourage-no, make that insist-that your players submit character histories to you along with copies of their character sheets. These histories can be narrative descriptions of a character's past experiences, a simple timeline or any other format that defines a character's history. The character history is one of the most important tools in your Storyteller kit. All too often, a Storyteller who is fresh out of ideas for plots and subplots need look no further than these character backgrounds for the perfect story thread. Did the Sabbat pack priest have an illicit liaison with a Camarilla Kindred at some point in her history? Introduce this former lover as a Narrator character into the current story and watch the dramatic sparks fly. Does the Toreador neonate search for her sire's lost works of art? Put the missing pieces on display at a museum or in a nightclub, and let the character try to discover how they got there and how to obtain them. Character backgrounds will be lousy with ex-lovers, past misdeeds, hidden indiscretions, mortal enemies and personal quests, and they all make great subplots and plot threads.

MAIN PLOTS

The central plot of your story is what brings your characters together and gives them a reason to interact. It should therefore be broad-based in its impact, affecting all characters in some way. While every character need not participate in the main plot, they should (at the very least) be aware of it and consider its potential to change their environment and circumstances.

Take, for example, a plot that concerns the slow awakening of an elder from torpor and her affect on the characters' locale. Some characters will be affected directly and immediately by the main plot as they discover and clash with the elder's

Storytelling

237

minions who are scurrying about to complete preparations for her imminent return. Other characters won't be affected until the elder actually wakes from torpor and begins establishing her power base in the city. Some characters won't be affected in any direct way as they proceed with their own agendas and plans, however, they should feel the main plot's impact in some fashion as the awakening elder changes the environment and individuals around them. Occasionally a player will remain deliberately ignorant of the main plot's existence, refusing to acknowledge it even if it bites him on the rear. This player deserves no special dispensation, and he should suffer the consequences of his intentional aloofness.

SUBPLOTS

Subplots are nearly as important to the success of your story as the main plot itself. They are minor events and activities, triumphs and tragedies, that fill the vampire's nightly existence. It isn't necessary to create a separate subplot for each player's character; often the same subplot can involve several characters simulta- neously, particularly if your players are enthusiastic about the game. Strongly motivated characters will create their own subplots regularly anyway, and they will drag others into these situations without any prodding or help from you\!

Some characters just won't be interested in the main plot. Their goals might be too far removed from the main story action, or their motivations might not allow them to be sidetracked by what everyone else is doing. This single focus may seem like a problem, but it's actually an opportunity. Character goals and motivations can be the very essence of great subplots, and they can lead to broader, more encompassing stories. You'll discover that subplots are also an effective means of dropping a new character into an existing story. Just give the newcomer a connection with one or more of the existing characters, and let the sparks begin to fly. Remember: Conflict is your friend\! It makes for the best subplots, and it is relatively easy to establish.

When running long-term stories, be especially alert for subplots that take on a life of their own and threaten to become major plots, engulfing many characters and dominating entire game sessions. This uncontrolled expansion won't necessarily derail your own story. Look on it as an opportunity. You might even be grateful to your players on occasion for this type of enterprising behavior, because it relieves you of some of the solitary burden of creating stories. For example, it's not uncommon for at least one character in an extended chronicle to start sliding gradually toward the Beast, becoming a force of violence and chaos in the story. Though it might seem an inconvenience or a threat to your own plots, such a descent is actually a chance for some great character development and dramatic action. Work with the player to make her character's spiral into madness a thrilling story. Your plots will still be there when the other characters finish dealing with this problem.

CHARACTER RELATIONS

The game can't happen if the characters don't interact with one another. The quickest route to story failure is to create a situation in which the characters don't wish, or don't have adequate reason, to interact. Not to say that the characters must cooperate and get along all the time, of course-conflict is a vital and necessary part of good stories\! Nonetheless your story will fizzle if too many characters remain completely solitary, or hoard all the information they discover. Sometimes this isolation occurs because players lack direction and are confused about what they want to do next. You can plan for this eventuality and establish good and clear reasons for characters to interact with one another.

Those character backgrounds are the ideal place to begin planning for character interaction. Were two characters in the story Embraced in London during the

Laws of the Night

€30

Victorian period? That's not only a reason for character interaction, but the makings of a subplot as well. Try fabricating rumor and gossip, or dropping hints about something suspicious happening in the vicinity that will pique character interest and coax them to interact. If this type of manipulation doesn't get them talking to one another, try giving them a common threat or enemy who is too strong for them to face individually, and who therefore requires communication and cooperation to defeat. If, despite your best efforts, the characters still refuse to interact, you may have a genuine problem: Your players may be too fearful of "losing" to risk anything by engaging in character relations (see "Troubleshooting").

CREATING THE SETTING

The story's setting will have an immediate, tangible impact on its tone and mood, and it will influence the characters' actions from the very first game session. Your plot can be enhanced or encumbered dramatically by your choice of setting and how you detail it, so don't skimp on this element of the story.

FINDING GAME LOCATIONS

The ideal location for any story will have multiple rooms or areas where characters can meet privately, and a more central meeting area large enough to hold all the characters at once. It will also need to be relatively private, so that your players won't disturb anyone and will not be disturbed in turn. Examples of good story locations are parks, dorm lounges, apartment complex lounges, museums, restaurant meeting rooms, office board rooms, night clubs, conventions and shopping malls. The more public the location, however, the more care you must take not to disturb or offend non-players with your choice of costumes, props, language and behavior. Obtain permission before utilizing any type of private property, and maintain contact with local law enforcement authorities if your story will occur in view of the public eye. Use good judgment when dealing with any non-players who approach your game and are curious about what is going on; take the time to explain exactly what you are doing, but don't invite non-players to participate in the game at this point. Consider printing up some inexpensive business cards to offer passersby who are genuinely curious and encourage them to contact you later, when you can speak with them at leisure.

WHERE ARE WE?

Take some time to think about what the setting must be like from your characters' point of view. What's its history? What are its secrets? Who are the major movers and shakers in the area? Are there supernatural threats waiting to pounce on your unsuspecting characters? Is it a threatening place where the characters will face danger every night, or is it a peaceful, placid locale in which the characters are the ultimate power? Choose locations that complement your theme and mood whenever possible. If you want to invoke a brooding, somber mood as you weave a tale about the price of power, you shouldn't choose the front room of a pizza parlor, no matter how inexpensive or centrally located it might be. After choosing your location, supply your characters with a general map of the location, whether it's an entire city or a single building within a metropolis. Doing so gives them a better idea of the physical location and helps them visualize the setting as they play.

DISASTERS WAITING TO HAPPEN

A very useful Storytelling technique is to plant a few incendiary devices within the story backdrop before the story even begins. These story "land mines" go off only if characters meet predetermined criteria known only to you. For example, you decide when you create the story that the local FBI field office is supervised by an

Storytelling

agent who is obsessed with investigating the occult. This agent is alert for anything that might lead to solid proof about the supernatural world. If the characters are foolish enough as to commit a serious violation of the Masquerade that is noted in the press, the agent will pounce on the information and follow it doggedly. The agent is a "time bomb" planted in the story, but its clock does not start unless the characters do something to activate it.

STAGE BUSINESS

IN AND OUT OF THE BOX

Devote time and attention to your setting and the stage on which it occurs. Your story's setting should not be a cardboard stage that exists only when your players tread on it. Make it a vibrant, active part of the story that lives and breathes even without the characters' conscious presence.

Think about what happens during any given 24-hour period in any community. People are born and die, they transact business, they obtain goods and services, they construct new buildings and tear old ones down, they commit crimes and infidelities, they end relationships and begin new ones and they embark on hundreds of minor projects and enterprises that, when combined, make up their daily and nightly lives. What happens in your setting when the characters depart the Elysium for the night? How might these events be reflected on your stage when the characters next meet? Your setting should reflect this ebb and flow of mortal life, so that your characters will know and understand that they live in a place that is not static, but that is as active as they are.

AMBIANCE

This game is about vampires. These creatures dwell in a world remarkably like our own, but with subtle differences. This world is the epitome of the Gothic-Punk environment, and establishing its look and feel in your game can be a challenge. Lighting, music and stage dressing will all help bring your story and scenes to life and make it all the more real for your players.

LIGHTING

The world of the Cainites is dim, full of shadowed rooms, dark corners and unlit alleys. Vampires can function only during the hours of darkness. Increase the realism and believability of your setting by avoiding daylight games. Drawing aside a curtain to reveal the bright sun of high noon can be hell on game ambiance. Turn out some of the lights in your game locations, but don't make the room pitch black-doing so risks the safety of the participants. Candles are ideal for creating the proper ambiance, but most game sites won't permit real fire, with good reason. You can replicate firelight with electric holiday candles, or regular light bulbs masked by colored plastic screens (called gels). Strings of miniature lights can also replicate shadowy spaces, but give you enough light to play safely.

Avoid bright, direct lighting, as it brings the mundane world into sharp focus. Try replacing white lights with lower wattage, softer bulbs. You can even use multicolored lights to help create mood and atmosphere. A red light bathing one corner of a room helps convey an angry, tense mood, while blue light often indicates cooler, more subdued emotions. Strobe lights and black lights both work well to convey the energy and appearance of a nightclub, while phosphorescent glow sticks make great light sources for sewers (and the red ones give off a glow that's reminiscent of firelight). If you can't turn off some of the lights or replace them with dimmer bulbs, try draping a screen of dark cloth over them to cut down the direct light, being careful not to create a fire hazard.

Laws of the Night

MUSIC

Consider the emotional messages you want to send with each story session. Music can help you create these feelings, underscoring the sensations of fear, anger, love or joy that you're trying to bring into the game. Bring a variety of music to your games so that you can change it to reflect your story's changing moods, and tailor the music volume to the current story environment. Keep the volume at a background level when your players are trying to interact-don't force them to compete with the music. Try not to let the music overpower your settings. Your choice of music should suggest the mood, not dictate it. Movie soundtracks are ideal for many stories because they have few distracting lyrics and usually have multiple tracks that convey the changing moods and scenes of the film. Try classical music or light jazz to evoke a more sophisticated atmosphere, or techno and dance to establish a higher energy level. Gregorian chants and plainsong create a feeling of antiquity, while New Age music can evoke a mysterious atmosphere.

PROPS

Consider props as one of your final touches. They are one of the last details needed to make your story believable, and they fall into two categories: stage props and personal props.

Stage Props

Stage props are those pieces of set dressing that decorate your game location to suggest the fictional locale where the story takes place. Whether set in the chantry or the sewers, you need some props to help bring the game to life. Good story props include furniture, works of art (especially art created by your players), costume jewelry, old clothes, legal documents, electronic bits and pieces from appliances that no longer function, scrolls, pieces of old Halloween costumes and unidentifiable oddments from your basement and attic. The limitations on props include resources, space, portability and storage.

You don't need to spend a fortune on props. You'll find many excellent pieces of set dressing in your own home, in discount or second-hand shops, and you can make others easily. They needn't be lavish-props shouldn't compete with your story for the players' attention. Props that suggest an object or setting are more than adequate in conveying the general idea of the actual object. Good players will treat these things as the genuine objects while in character, and they will use their imaginations to fill in the blanks. For example, a single large chair set in the center of an empty room can be the Prince's throne and represent his court; it needs only your descriptive narration to provide the necessary imagery. If your game seems short on stage props, enlist the help of your players in finding some suitable pieces, or get together and build a few simple props together.

Make sure your stage props are appropriate to the space in which you will use them. A great-looking wooden chest will be lost if you stick in the far corner of a school auditorium. Likewise a massive oak table and its 10 chairs might be just the thing for meetings of the city primogen, but it's less useful if it leaves no playing room for other characters. Smaller props might require some special lighting to make them noticeable among the other elements of your game, while larger props will tend to dominate scenes and even overpower them if they are too large.

Props small and large don't just find their way to the game site by themselves. Before you invest in any huge or awkward stage props, consider how you will get them from their storage place to the game and back. Smaller props can present the same problem if you have many boxes of them or if some of them are fragile. Check with the owners of your game site about prop storage. You might be able to arrange to store

Storytelling

641