ABILITIES

Academics, Alertness, Animal Ken, Athletics, Brawl, Computer, Crafts, Dodge, Drive, Empathy, Etiquette, Expression, Finance, Firearms, Hobby/ Professional/ Expert Ability, Intimidation, Investigation, Law, Leadership, Linguistics, Medicine, Melee, Occult, Performance, Politics, Repair, Science, Security, Stealth, Streetwise, Subterfuge, Survival

an Ability multiple times, if desired, to show greater expertise. A complete list of Abilities starts on p. 85. Note that some Abilities may be restricted by your Storyteller.

CHOOSING DISCIPLINES

Select three Basic Disciplines for your vampire character. You must select them in the order listed (that is, you must take the first Basic level before taking the second Basic level in any given Discipline), and you can only take the Basic levels at this time. These Disciplines must come from your clan's specialty Disciplines. If you are Caitiff, you may simply choose any three Basic Disciplines desired, but your Storyteller may restrict you to the eight most common Disciplines - Animalism, Auspex, Celerity, Dominate, Fortitude, Obfuscate, Potence or Presence - unless you have an exceptional reason for learning a more specialized power.

A complete list of Disciplines starts on p. 132. See the previous table for a quick list of your clan's specialty Disciplines.

Sabbat characters begin play with four Basic Disciplines.

CHOOSING BACKGROUNDS

You may take five Background Traits for your vampire. Each Background represents a tie to a particular agency, organization or resource, whether mortal or Cainite. You can have up to five Traits in any Background, though your Storyteller may prohibit certain Backgrounds based on your concept, and most Storytellers will scrutinize any Background above three Traits heavily.

Background descriptions start on p. 93.

Sabbat characters do not begin play with any Backgrounds-they must expend Free Traits to take Backgrounds.

STEP FOUR: LAST TOUCHES

The final character Traits come together once concept, clan, Attributes and advantages are chosen. Your last touches include Blood Traits, Willpower Traits, Morality Traits and Virtue Traits.

BLOOD TRAITS

Each vampire has a certain number of Blood Traits, or vitae. This blood can be used for a variety of different tasks, from temporarily improving one's physical prowess to healing wounds to powering Disciplines. You can hold a number of Blood Traits determined by your generation, as shown on p. 95. This number is modified by any clan disadvantages or Flaws that you may have relating to feeding, and it can be improved by the Herd Background (see p. 96).

WILLPOWER TRAITS

When all other avenues are exhausted, your Willpower measures your innate drive for self-preservation, your sense of mental fortitude and your ability to resist temptation and defeat. You can use Willpower Traits for a variety of tasks, like redoubling your efforts in a task or resisting supernatural coercion.

You come into play with a number of Willpower Traits dependent on your generation. The generation table on p. 95 shows your starting permanent Will- Laves of the Night

68

QUICK DISCIPLINES

Animalism through the Beast.

Auspex-Incredible sensory acuity, even extending to psychic sensitivity. Celerity-Superhuman speed granted by the power of blood. Chimerstry-The Ravnos gift of crafting illusions and hallucinations.

• Dementation - The Malkavian ability to catalyze madness and spread the gift of insanity.

Communion with and control over natural animals,

Dominate-Control of minds through piercing gaze and strong will. Fortitude-Resilience against even the forces that normally injure vampires.

• Melpominee- -The Daughters of Cacophony manipulate their voices to madden or inspire their listeners with this power.

Necromancy-Commerce with and power over the spirits of the dead. The Sepulchre Path communicates with ghosts; the Bone Path deals with corpses; the Ash Path sees across the barriers of death and manipulates the lands of the dead.

• Obeah- This little-understood power of the Salubri allows them to shelter and heal the injured, whether in body or mind.

•Obfuscate-Concealment through tricking the minds of onlookers.

• Obtenebration-Manipulation of tangible, soul-smothering darkness is the province of the Lasombra.

• Potence Incredible strength, beyond even the unfaltering might of dead limbs.

• Presence-Unnatural charisma and ability to sway emotions.

• Protean Shapeshifting and wilderness survival in primal forms, specific to the Gangrel.

• Quietus- The Assamites have learned to manipulate blood to bring silent, poisonous death.

•

Serpentis Egyptian legend.

• Thanatosis

·

The Setites' Discipline of reptilian transformation from

The Samedi's control of the processes of death and decay. Thaumaturgy-Tremere blood magic exercised through the will over vitae. The Path of Blood controls Cainite vitae; The Lure of Flames summons unnatural fire; Movement of the Mind controls objects telekinetically; the Path of Conjuring allows a caster to pull objects from thin air.

• Vicissitude - This art and craft of shaping flesh and bone like clay is known to the Tzimisce.

power, indicating how many Willpower Traits you have. The maximum Willpower listing shows the highest rating that your Willpower can reach. You may choose to have a card for each Trait of Willpower you possess, and you must turn the card over to a Narrator or Storyteller when you expend Willpower.

VIRTUE TRAITS

Every vampire must resist the temptation to "sin" in some fashion. Virtue Traits are the spiritual endurance with which a character fights against the talons of the Beast.

Virtue Traits come in three categories: Conscience/ Conviction Traits, Self- Control/ Instinct Traits and Courage Traits. You get seven Traits to split among these categories. Each category must range from one to five total Traits.

Character Creation and Trails

(69)

Your Conscience/ Conviction is your degree of adherence to your chosen morality. If you have many Traits here, you feel remorse for your evil deeds (or you refuse to be bowed by concern for such), thus preventing the Beast from eroding your morality.

Self-Control/ Instinct Traits represent the ability to guide or resist frenzy. High Traits in this category help to fight off berserk rage or hunger.

Courage Traits battle against Rötschreck, the Red Fear. With many Courage Traits, you can withstand the terror of fire or sunlight.

The Virtue Traits that you possess depend on your chosen morality. You always start with one free Trait in Courage, and if you have Conscience or Self-Control, you start with one free Trait in each of those. Characters with Conviction or Instinct have thrown away their more human drives in favor of vampire ethics, but this effort means that you get no free Traits in the appropriate Virtue (so you must assign at least one of your seven Virtue Traits there). See the quick listing of morality for a summation of the Virtues prized by each Path. More complete descriptions of the Virtues and Virtue Tests appear on p. 108.

MORALITY TRAITS

While your Virtue Traits represent your ability to hold off against the Beast, your Morality Traits show how closely you adhere to your chosen codes of ethics. A high rating in your Morality Traits indicates that you set high standards for yourself, but you risk losing ground to the Beast even with relatively trivial violations of your chosen morals. Low Morality Traits indicate that you are close to losing control to the Beast forever.

Your starting Morality Trait total equals the average of your Conscience/ Conviction and Self-Control/ Instinct Traits, rounded up. Thus, you have a Morality rating from one to five Traits. Your number of Morality Traits determines how well you avoid some of the problems associated with the bestial nature of vampires (such as staying awake during the day, rising from torpor and dealing with mortals), but it also indicates what circumstances call for a test of Virtue.

During character creation, you may choose to lose one Morality Trait in exchange for gaining two Free Traits. You may do so only once-losing a Morality Trait counts as taking two Negative Traits. Be warned though, that doing so is a dangerous course; a low Morality Trait total practically guarantees eventual disintegration into the Wassail, the final frenzy.

NEGATIVE TRAITS

Some characters have particular weaknesses or shortcomings. Others just never developed in some fashion, or suffered injuries that set back otherwise strong attributes.

BACKGROUNDS

Allies-Mortal confederates and aides.

Contacts Sources of reliable information. Fame-Outstanding reputation in mortal society.

Generation - Potency of one's blood and closeness to the power of Caine, the first vampire. Available only with Storyteller approval.

Herd-Mortal followers or thralls who provide easy access to blood. Influence-Sway over the institutions of mortal society in any number of areas: Bureaucracy, Church, Finance, Health, High Society, Industry, Legal, Media, Occult, Police, Political, Street, Transportation, Underworld or University. Mentor-An older or more experienced Cainite instructor and patron. Resources-Material wealth and access to ready cash. Retainers - Loyal servants who oversee projects and property.

Laws of the Night

Such hindrances are represented with Negative Traits. Though Negative Traits are not required, they can represent a deficiency or injury in your character.

Since few people actually want to play a character with handicaps and problems, Negative Traits grant bonuses in other areas of character creation. Each Negative Trait taken is good for one Free Trait later. You may take up to five Negative Traits, though you should not take more than three Negative Traits in any one attribute category.

Unlike other Attributes, you should only take Negative Traits from the list here. Although there are certainly other adjectives that would appropriately describe a character's drawbacks, nobody can be expected to guess a Trait that isn't covered in the rules.

Remember to take Negative Traits that you can roleplay accurately and well. The Storyteller may force you to "buy off" Negative Traits that you ignore consistently.

A complete listing of Negative Traits, and how they affect play, begins on p. 81. DERANGEMENTS

In addition to Negative Traits, you can choose derangements for your character. A derangement represents some sort of mental instability or neurotic behavior. Taking a derangement counts as two Negative Traits and thus grants you two Free Traits, but you can only take one derangement at character creation (or one extra, in the case of Malkavians, who all start with one). Be warned, derangements cause unpredictable and uncontrollable behavior at times, and a Storyteller is justified in asking you to "buy off" any derangement that you do not roleplay accurately.

Remember that playing a derangement is an exercise in advanced roleplaying. Insanity is neither humorous nor light. You should always consult your Storyteller before deciding to take a derangement.

CHOOSING FLAWS

Representing specific deficiencies or drawbacks aside from inherent weaknesses common to many people, Flaws showcase particular problems. As with Negative Traits, Flaws grant additional Traits to the user. Each Flaw is rated in terms of its value, ranging from one to seven Traits. The higher the value, the more debilitating the Flaw. A character may total up to seven Traits of Flaws. Elder vampires may have more Flaws; after all, age takes its toll.

Flaws begin on p. 112, with the listings for Merits and Flaws. FREE TRAITS

Because no two Cainites are alike, each character gets an allotment of Free Traits to spend on any area of development desired. If you want your character to be socially adept but also intelligent, for instance, you can use Free Traits to improve your Attributes so that you have a high number of Traits in both categories. You could decide to use Free Traits for extra Backgrounds if your character has strong mortal connections, or for Disciplines if she has studied her vampiric powers especially well. Each character gets five Free Traits at this stage. Additional Free Traits are earned from Negative Traits, Flaws or Derangements taken earlier, or by removing Morality Traits. One Negative Trait grants a single Free Trait. A derangement or Morality Trait is worth two Bonus Traits, and Flaws have variable values listed individually. One Free Trait can be spent to take an additional Attribute Trait. One Free Trait allows for an additional Ability Trait.

A single Free Trait allows you to declare a specialization in one Ability Trait. Remember that each Ability can only have one specialization.

One Free Trait converts to an additional Background Trait, though subject to normal Storyteller approval.

Character Creation and Trails

NEGATIVE TRAITS

Negative Physical Traits: Clumsy, Cowardly, Decrepit, Delicate, Docile, Flabby, Lame, Lethargic, Puny, Sickly

Negative Social Traits: Bestial, Callous, Condescending, Dull, Feral, NaOve, Obnoxious, Repugnant, Shy, Tactless, Untrustworthy

• Mental Traits: Forgetful, Gullible, Ignorant, Impatient, Oblivious, Predict- able, Shortsighted, Submissive, Violent, Witless

Two Free Traits can be used for an extra Virtue Trait. Raising Virtues in this fashion does affect total Morality Traits.

Three Free Traits can be spent for a Morality Trait.

• Three Free Traits allow for an extra Willpower Trait, subject to generational limits. Three Free Traits can be used to purchase the Basic level of any one Discipline, in the usual progression, subject to Storyteller approval.

Merits have a variable Free Trait cost, dependent on the individual Merit. CHOOSING MERITS

The antithesis of Flaws, Merits represent special bonuses and capabilities beyond the norm. Each Merit is rated in terms of its Trait value. To take a Merit, you must expend Free Traits equal to the Merit's value. You can take no more than seven Traits of Merits, total (though some older vampires may have more).

Merits start on p. 112, with the Merits and Flaws section.

STEP FIVE: SPARK OF LIFE

Your character is more than a summation of Traits and adjectives. At this stage, take the concepts that you've emphasized and develop a story for your character. Look for explanations to why the character learned certain things, failed in others and developed as she did. Think about the sort of person that you're playing and the motives of the individual.

Background-Think about the mortal life from which your character came. Where and when were you born? How were you raised? What sort of education did you have, if any? Did you have any particularly spectacular successes, failures, romances or businesses?

Secrets-Secrets are one of the major commodities of Cainite society. Do you have any secret regrets? Hopes? Ambitions? Do you know something that you shouldn't?

Motivations-Figure out why your character interacts with other Cainites and deals with vampire society. Do you seek personal gain? Are you hunting someone or running from persecution? Perhaps you want to impress your sire or find a companion. If you have trouble figuring out why your character would show up in the game, ask a Narrator or Storyteller for a couple of possible motives.

Appearance-The Embrace often wreaks changes on the body, whether to imbue it with the grace and beauty of a predator or to twist into some strange visage. How he stands, walks, holds a cigarette or dresses will be one of the things that other characters will remember him by.

DERANGEMENTS

Bulimia, Crimson Rage, Fugue, Hysteria, Immortal Terror, Manic-Depres- sion, Megalomania, Multiple Personalities, Obsessive/ Compulsive, Paranoia, Regression, Sanguinary Animism, Schizophrenia

Laws of the Night

72

Equipment-Your character's Backgrounds of Resources and Influence may grant access to certain pieces of special gear. Whether you have a leather jacket, a handgun or a wad of cash, you should talk to your Storyteller to make sure that your character's gear is accounted for. You can have a card for each special item that you carry, representing the object in question (especially for weapons, armor and other conspicuous devices that you shouldn't be lugging around in real life).

Quirks-Everybody has distinctive behaviors. Anything from a habit of saying "Great Caine\!" to playing with a ponytail-such mannerisms show off your character's uniqueness. A quirk can even be used to distinguish you when in disguise or using Disciplines to possess another body- or you could copy someone else's quirks. ARCHETYPES

Each Archetype describes an essential form of personality. Though a character is more than a simple set of drives, an Archetype provides a basic springboard from which the character's motives and behaviors can develop. An archetypal Nature shows the underlying elements making up a personality, while archetypal Demeanor is the face the character shows to the world around him.

In game play, a character's Nature Archetype serves to provide concrete goals and codes of behavior, which means that a character can call for a retest on a Virtue Test automatically if a frenzy would violate the character's Nature. However, if Someone discovers your character's Nature, it can be used against you in the same way a Negative Trait might be, forcing you into a challenge.

Example: Ian, a Malkavian with a Fanatic Nature and a fervent hatred of the Sabbat,

is leading five other Kindred against a marauding pack. One of the pack brandishes a Molotov cocktail at lan, who tests for frenzy and fails. However, Ian's player calls for a retest based on Ian's Nature-he's too driven to let some shovelhead punk fresh out of the ground try to scare him with a cheap tactic. The player makes a second test and wins. Ian pauses only for a moment at the sight of the Molotov before launching himself at the startled pack member. Later, lan is wounded and winded, and the prince asks him to lead another charge. Ian is in no shape to do so, and he refuses. The prince commands him angrily: "I am your prince and too Commanding for you to refuse." The prince then adds, "You're too much of a Fanatic, lan, to let these rabble run unchecked through the city." The prince's player calls for a Social Challenge, and because he guessed lan's Nature correctly, lan's player must advance two Traits. The challenge is made, and Ian loses. Wearily, the Lunatic rises to his feet and prepares for the next assault.

⚫ Architect-You hope to leave a lasting legacy, to build something for the future. Autocrat-You want to take charge, since nobody else can do the job right.

• Bon Vivant-Only a good time can assuage your otherwise empty existence. Bravo-Other people only get in your way of doing things, and you do not hesitate to bully them into line.

Caregiver - You protect and comfort others.

• Celebrant - You find that joy springs from your overriding passion.

• Child - You need others to nurture and help you.

Competitor-Everything is a contest, and you plan to win.

• Conformist - You take the lead and the cues from someone else, letting others handle the responsibility.

Conniver-There's no point to doing it yourself when you can get someone else to put in the effort.

Curmudgeon-Nothing's perfect, everything sucks and you're going to make sure that everybody knows it.

Character Creation and Trails

Deviant-Normal? What's that? You have no use for social norms and mores. Director-You feel an overriding need to impose order.

Fanatic-One cause, one truth, one purpose-you serve and proselytize with absolute conviction.

Gallant-Everything you do is geared toward flamboyance and excess, since you need the attentions of those around you.

Judge- You have a deep sense of right and wrong, and you seek justice measured by your principles.

Loner-You just don't belong, either by choice or by nature.

Martyr-Everyone benefits when you shoulder the burdens of your ideals. Masochist You test yourself through suffering, and find meaning in enduring pain.

Monster Build your purpose from a malignant drive to showcase evil through your actions.

Pedagogue-Everyone can learn from your example and experiences; you were born to teach others.

Penitent-You have sinned, and you cannot rest until you atone for it.

•Perfectionist-You do everything with wholehearted zeal aimed at immacu- late completion. There's no excuse for flawed efforts.

Rebel-Whether from habit or drive, you lash out at the system and try to break it down.

Rogue-First and foremost, you look out for number one. Survivor-Nothing stops you, for your drive to pull through is indomitable. Thrill-Seeker-You're always after the next high, by pushing danger to the edge. Traditionalist-The old ways are the best ways, so you preserve and protect them.

•Trickster-Existence is absurd, so you fill it with humor and irreverence to avoid looking too deeply at the pain.

Visionary- A goal fills your mind, and your dreams bring faith to others.

MORALITY PATHS

The Embrace strips a fledgling vampire of all ties to life and humanity. Turned into an animated mockery of life that subsists on the blood of others, the new vampire can only hope to hang onto some memory of mortal morality. The feelings of compassion, the ineffable tie to life, trust and love are all cast aside by a curse that separates the vampire from the rest of humanity. With all human drives and desires twisted into a raging Beast that demands survival at any cost, only a code of morality stands between the Cainite and utter animalistic insanity.

Most vampires, thrust suddenly into undead society, cling to the trappings of their mortal lives. This Humanity guides vampires to control their urges and to hang on to the shadows of their former consciences. Indeed, many vampires, suddenly terrified by the Hunger, hold themselves to higher standards in death than in life. However, as the ages pass, emotions fade and Cainites become jaded, their Humanity flickering like a dying candle. The Humanity of the most ancient of elders hangs only by a thread, and many lose their Humanity entirely, falling into a final grand dance of frenzy and slaughter until they are put down like rabid dogs by their fellow Kindred. As a vampire loses her Humanity, she comes to resemble a pallid, desiccated corpse and is driven more by her vampire habits: sleeping deeply during the day, giving in to the lassitude of age and finding it difficult to interact with mortals as anything other than prey.

Laws of the Night

A rare few vampires have the presence of mind to set for themselves moral standards alien to humanity. As long as the Cainite holds to a rigid code of conduct, the Beast can be kept at bay. Such a restructuring of one's lifetime of morals requires incredible will and many years of dedicated study. Over the centuries, vampires have developed several such alternate moralities, called Paths of Enlightenment. These Paths cast aside all that is humane in favor of a specialized code more appropriate to the undead. Needless to say, despite their stabilizing affect, these Paths are sociopathic-indeed, their practitioners are unquestionably divorced from anything resembling mortal thought or belief. A follower of a Path may channel his vampire urges, but such channels cause instinctive fear and revulsion in mortals.

When you create a vampire character, you default to the morality of Humanity. Your Morality Traits can range from zero to five, with zero Traits indicating that the character has fallen completely to the clutches of the Beast (and is thus no longer suitable for play) and five indicating a character with a highly developed sense of morality. With the permission of a Storyteller, you can start with a Path of Enlightenment, but keep in mind that Paths are difficult and demanding to roleplay. To study a Path, your character must have at least three Willpower Traits, and he must have spent several years abandoning Humanity in favor of a new set of morals (with instruction). Paths also sometimes use different Virtues, and you may not start with as many Virtue Traits if you have Conviction or Instinct (since it takes work to strip away your human virtues in favor of these inhuman ones).

Each Path (including Humanity) has a Hierarchy of Sins. This Hierarchy elaborates on what constitutes a moral failing for its particular set of ethics. The higher the rating, the stricter the standards. Everything below that rating is automatically considered a failing if performed. Thus, a rare vampire with a Humanity of 5 doesn't need to grapple with his conscience over the notion that killing someone is wrong-he already knows that. He does, however, have qualms about putting himself first too often.

A character with several Morality Traits is distanced from the Beast, but conversely, he must hold himself to high standards of behavior, as shown by the many possible sins. With few Morality Traits, a character risks succumbing to the Beast, but trivial moral concerns are too minor to erode his morals further. The details of Morality Traits and Virtue Tests appear on p. 108-111.

The Paths of Enlightenment in this book are often found among non-aligned vampires, or among a few vampires of any sectarian allegiance. Camarilla vampires usually uphold Humanity, though a rare few elders follow different beliefs. Vampires of the Sabbat have their own inhuman Paths of Enlightenment, which are a subject for another book. HUMANITY

The majority of vampires default to Humanity. Even the depraved vampires of the Sabbat and the jaded elders of the Camarilla cling to some vestige of Humanity, though such monsters usually have very few Humanity Traits.

The ethics of Humanity uphold what constitutes humane behavior: Humanity warns against stealing, killing, harming others or behaving selfishly.

Humanity Five-Kindred with a score this high can be, ironically, more human than other humans. Many fledgling vampires cling to their moral codes more strictly as a reaction against the new predator roiling in them. Though not necessarily treacly sweet or passive, these Kindred have excruciatingly high standards for themselves and often hold clearly defined concepts of right and wrong.

Humanity Four-Theft is wrong. Murder or harming others is wrong. But sometimes the speed limit is just too damn slow. Vampires at this level are approximate to "normal" social morals, and are on par with most of mortal society. The vampire is concerned with the natural rights of others, but there's some natural selfishness mixed in.

Character Creation and Trails

Traits

Five

Four

Three

Two One

HUMANITY HIERARCHY OF SINS

Violations

Selfish thoughts and actions

Theft; causing injury

Accidentally killing, intentionally causing

property damage

Killing with premeditation

Casual killing or acts of great evil

(as your culture defines "evil")

Humanity Three-People die. Stuff breaks. This vampire has little difficulty with the fact that she is a predator. While she won't always go out of her way to vandalize or kill, she accepts that sometimes fate has it in for some people. She does what needs doing with little griping or effort on her part to avoid it. Something of the vampire's inner monster starts to shine through at this stage, causing mortals to feel uncomfortable around her or manifesting some physical eeriness.

Humanity Two-Hey, some people ought to die. Killing is very acceptable to this Kindred, provided the victim deserves to die (and only the vampire knows who's deserving). Theft, injury, torture and destruction are tools to be used to accomplish one's goals, and one's goals are always paramount. Such a state reflects many vampire elders. The vampire begins to acquire a corpselike aspect, and may find it difficult to interact with mortals (who often find him more than a little disturbing).

Humanity One-The lives and property of others mean nothing to a Kindred this far gone. Such a vampire more than likely indulges in twisted pleasures, which can be all manner of atrocity. Perversion, cold-blooded murder, mutilation, wickedness for its own sake are all signs of a Kindred who has not long to continue. The next frenzy may well be the last. Such a vampire may be physically mistaken for human, but only under certain conditions (such as dim lighting and plenty of distractions).

THE PATH OF BLOOD

Studied by the Assamites, this Path espouses a connection to Haqim, founder of the clan, through the power of blood. Vampires on this Path hunt down other Cainites, drinking their blood in order to improve their own potency. Those few who evidence distaste for their condition or hatred for the "Get of Khayyin" (descendants of Caine) may be offered the opportunity to convert, to serve the will of Haqim in his battle

PATH OF BLOOD HIERARCHY OF SINS

Traits

Five

Four

Three

Two

One

Violations

Killing a mortal for blood; breaking your word to a clanmate

Refusing to allow an outsider to convert; failing to destroy an outsider who refuses conversion Succumbing to frenzy, refusing to pursue lore of Khayyin Failing to pursue lesser blood for your clanmates; refusal to aid a more enlightened follower of the Path Failing to take a chance to lower your generation; acting against another Assamite

Laws of the Night

76

Traits

Five

Four

Three

Two

One

PATH OF BONES HIERARCHY OF SINS

Violations

Showing fear of death; failing to study death

Accidentally killing; failing to feed when hungry Succumbing to frenzy; refusing to kill

Heeding emotion; showing compassion

Preventing the occurrence of death

against Khayyin's evil childer. By diablerizing their enemies and holding aloof from other Cainites, the students of the Path of Blood seek to overcome the blot of Khayyin's curse and redeem themselves in a transcendence awash in stolen vitae.

The so-called Dervishes hunt for lore and ancient vitae, so that they may understand their enemies and take their power. Even Cainites of weak blood are not immune to the hunts; the Dervishes are said to have ways of mystically preserving the vitae so that other members of their clan can use it. By stealing away the power of other vampires, the Dervishes hope to concentrate it in the hands of the faithful, who purify it through their honor.

Only old and faithful Assamites, and afew converts, study the Path of Blood. Most outsiders and neonates are completely ignorant of this Path. Instruction begins only when the supplicant proves his worth and his desire to be shed of Khayyin's curse in the light of Haqim's glory.

Students of the Path of Blood practice Conviction and Self-Control. THE PATH OF BONES

As walking corpses, vampires truly exist on the cusp of mortality. Death comes to all things sooner or later, so the Gravediggers study the process of physical death, the decay of the body and the extinguishing of the spirit. Practiced largely by Giovanni and some Samedi, these scholarly Cainites strive to unlock the mysteries of death, to understand why death occurs and how vampires cheat the natural cycle. Though they are neither murderers nor cavalier about death, they do occasionally "assist" if death seems to be unnaturally delayed.

Necromantic curiosity drives followers of the Path of Bones to seek out experiments and hidden lore about death. Many consort with ghosts, trying to discem the very motives of the soul. To a Gravedigger, the vampire cheats eternity. The answers to how and why this happens hold the keys to understanding all of mortality, and thus, to all existence. While the Gravediggers may be quite erudite about ghosts and thanatology, many are completely divorced from society, mortal or Cainite.

The Path of Bones upholds Conviction and Self-Control. THE PATH OF METAMORPHOSIS

Long have the Carpathian Fiends studied the ways of the flesh. Through Vicissitude, they twist themselves into new visages until they do not have a recognizable gender or even

PATH OF METAMORPHOSIS HIERARCHY OF SINS

Traits

Five

Four

Three

Two

One

Violations

Postponing feeding; indulging in vices Asking for or sharing knowledge with another Refusing to kill for knowledge; failing to guide a frenzy Considering others; failing to experiment

Neglecting to practice alteration and evolution; showing compassion

Character Creation and Trails

Traits

Five

Four

Three Two

One

PATH OF NIGHT HIERARCHY OF SINS

Violations

Killing a mortal for food; acting altruistically Failing to devise new and shocking forms of evil; asking for assistance

Accidentally killing, following another Cainite's will Intentionally killing rather than prolonging suffering; showing compassion

Accepting another's authority; repenting of your evil

look remotely human. True Metamorphosists, though, aim not to shock but to evolve. Just as vampires are superior to humans, they claim, there is another state superior to vampirism. By controlling the physical flesh and learning the ways of the body, they hope to cause spirit and mind to follow suit, turning into something beyond vampire.

In keeping with their practices, the Metamorphosists are solitary and cold. Reason, experimentation and self-discipline are the keystones to improvement. Each individual must find the secret keys to her own existence. As such, the students of the Path of Metamorphosis individually chart disparate paths leading to that state above and beyond vampirism.

The Path of Metamorphosis teaches Conviction and Instinct.

THE PATH OF NIGHT

Vampires are monsters, claim the Nihilists, and as such, they embody all of the terrible sins of the world. Since vampires serve a place in the greater scheme of existence, the evil of vampirism must be preordained. Thus, instead of simply giving in to the Beast, adherents of the Path of Night seek to spread their evil in cultivated ways, tempting people to damnation and terrifying the faithless. By acting as an agent of evil, the vampire fulfills his role to higher powers.

A vampire on the Path of Night is not a ravening, insane beast. He seeks to show the true depth of evil to others, luring them into vice and highlighting virtue by its opposite. These vampires plague humanity with all manner of terrors and temptations, seeking not only mortal fears but their own escalation as dark angels. By spreading the taint, the vampire hopes to fulfill a preordained destiny, and thus to eventually move on.

The Path of Night teaches Conviction and Instinct.

THE PATH OF PARADOX

Espousing riddles that delve into the illusory nature of existence, the Ravnos followers of the Path of Paradox seek to fulfill the demands of karma. By testing others (often with traps or riddles), the Shilmulo determine each person's place in the wheel of ages. Once the veils of the transitory material world are cast aside, the philosopher can lead the subject to his proper place in destiny-even death.

Kindred are believed to be locked outside of maya (the cycle of the universe). While most individuals are reincarnated through samsara, the way of rebirth, vampires have dodged this cycle. Therefore, they have also lost their svadharma, or individual purpose. Thus, it remains to the Shilmulo to determine each vampire's svadharma and get him back on that path, thus advancing maya, by whatever means necessary. If other Kindred fail to understand their svadharma, then it's up to the Ravnos to push them back into samsara. The state of undeath is considered a curse, but Ravnos believe this shruti (what has been learned from the gods) to be due to their failure to understand maya. Only by weaving illusions themselves can they hope to tear away the veils that hide the Ultimate Truths.

The Path of Paradox upholds Conviction and Self-Control.

Laws of the Night

76\)

Traits

Five Four

Three

Two

One

PATH OF PARADOX HIERARCHY OF SINS

Violations

Embracing a woman or someone outside the jati (family) Destroying another Shilmulo; killing a mortal for sustenance

Failing to destroy a vampire outside this Path; killing a mortal needlessly

Failure to aid another's svadharma; allowing other

concerns to override dharma

Becoming blood bound; Embracing needlessly

THE PATH OF TYPHON

Set himself is said to lie in wait in the sands of Egypt. His followers, the Setites, work diligently to spread his influence through vice, favors and chains of ecstasy. Using the desires of others for control, the Theophidians gather information about their sleeping god, prepare agents for his return and seek the means to resurrect their deity.

The Corrupters are mistrusted by other Cainites, and with good reason. All Setites keep their motives carefully hidden so that they might draw on the resources of their hapless slaves without hindrance. After all, an ally (unwitting or otherwise) who does not know one's plans cannot effectively counter them. To this end, the Corrupters weave subtle webs of control, holding themselves aloof from petty indulgences while pandering the innermost desires of others. With their religious rites in hidden temples, they offer service and obedience to Set; through their carefully built chains of dependents, they gather the occult secrets and services necessary to strengthen their clan and god.

The Path of Typhon teaches Conviction and Self-Control.

Traits

Five

Four

Three

Two

One

PATH OF TYPHON HIERARCHY OF SINS

Violations

Pursuing your own vices or failing to aid

another Theophidian

Failing to destroy a vampire in Golconda; " failure to observe a Setite ritual

Failing to undermine the social order in favor of the Setites; failing to do what is necessary to bring another to ruin

Failing to pursue occult knowledge;

hindering another Setite

Failing to take advantage of another; refusing to aid in raising Set

ATTRIBUTES (BIDDING TRAITS)

The Traits that describe your character's innate capabilities are called Attributes. These Attributes are used in the game to perform actions and overcome obstacles. While certain situations may also require Abilities, such matters are a function of training. Even with the appropriate training, you must call on your own strengths to finish the tasks set before you.

Character Creation and Trails

When you enter a situation with a questionable outcome, you bid a Trait appropriate to the challenge. If you are trying to knock someone over, for instance, you might bid the Physical Trait Brawny as you use your strength. The nature of the challenge determines the Trait used-Physical, Social or Mental.

You should try to bid a Trait appropriate to the nature of each given challenge. That is, using your strength may call on the Brauny Trait but not the Dexterous Trait. If you and your opponent agree, you can use other Traits, but in general, choose Traits fitting the challenge.

Remember, when you bid a Trait for a challenge, you risk that particular Trait. If you fail the challenge, you may temporarily lose the use of the Trait, as you exhaust your resources and lose your confidence. Some situations may require the use of an additional Trait or more any time that you are considered "bids down," you must risk additional Traits. Conversely, if you are listed as "Traits up" or "Traits down," you modify your current number of Traits when comparing for overbids or ties.

For the purposes of determining what kinds of Traits are appropriate to specific challenges or Disciplines, the Trait listings include a run-down of what sorts of Traits fit into what specialized categories. For example, the Physical Trait Tough is appropriate for the Discipline of Potence because it is a strength-related Trait. Of course, you can ignore these categories if you wish, in favor of speeding the game. Remember, unique situations may allow Traits to be used in unusual ways.

New players may find it easier to bid a generic Trait from the appropriate pool instead of picking a specific one. Doing so allows them time to get the hang of the system. When they're more comfortable with bidding, then start having them choose Traits.

PHYSICAL TRAITS

Strength-related: Brawny, Ferocious, Stalwart, Tough, Wiry Dexterity-related: Dexterous, Graceful, Lithe, Nimble, Quick Stamina-related: Enduring, Resilient, Robust, Rugged, Tireless Miscellaneous Physical: Agile, Energetic, Steady, Tenacious, Vigorous

Agile: You have a well-honed and flexible body. You can bend, twist, run and jump with ease.

Uses: Acrobatics. Athletics. Competitive events. Dodging.

Brawny: Bulky muscular strength.

Uses: Punching, kicking or grappling in combat when your goal is to inflict damage. Power-lifting. All feats of strength. Potence.

Brutal: You are capable of taking nearly any action in order to survive. Uses: Fighting an obviously superior enemy.

Dexterous: General adroitness and skill involving the use of one's hands. Uses: Weapon-oriented combat (Melee or Firearms). Pickpocketing. Punching. Celerity. Enduring: A persistent sturdiness against physical opposition.

Uses: When your survival is at stake, this Trait is a good one to risk as a second, or successive, bid. Fortitude.

Energetic: A powerful force of spirit. A strong internal drive propels you and, in physical situations, you can draw on a deep reservoir of enthusiasm and zeal.

Uses: Combat.

Ferocious: Possession of brutal intensity and extreme physical determination. Uses: Any time that you intend to do serious harm. When in frenzy. Potence. Graceful: Control and balance in the motion and use of the entire body. Uses: Combat defense. Whenever you might lose your balance. Celerity. Lithe: Characterized by flexibility and suppleness.

Laws of the Night

80

Uses: Acrobatics, gymnastics, dodging, dancing and Celerity. Nimble: Light and skillful; able to make agile movements. Uses: Dodging, jumping, rolling, acrobatics. Hand-to-hand combat. Celerity. Quick: Speedy, with a fast reaction time.

Uses: Defending against a surprise attack. Running, dodging, attacking. Celerity. Resilient: Characterized by strength of health; able to recover quickly from bodily harm. Fortitude.

Uses: Resisting adverse environments. Defending against damage in an attack. Robust: Resistant to physical harm and damage.

Uses: Defending against damage in an attack. Endurance-related actions that could take place over a period of time. Fortitude.

Rugged: Hardy, rough and brutally healthy. Able to shrug off wounds and pain to continue struggling.

Uses: When resisting damage, any challenge that you enter while injured. Earth Melding. Fortitude.

Stalwart: Physically strong and uncompromising against opposition.

Uses: Resisting damage, or when standing your ground against overwhelming odds or a superior foe. Potence.

Steady: More than simply physically dependable-controlled, unfaltering and balanced. You have firm mastery over your efforts.

Uses: Weapon attacks. Fighting in exotic locations.

Tenacious: Physically determined through force of will.

Uses: Second or subsequent Physical Challenge.

Tireless: You have a runner's stamina-you are less taxed by physical efforts than ordinary people.

Uses: Any endurance-related challenge, second or subsequent Physical Chal- lenge with the same foe or foes. Fortitude.

Tough: A harsh, aggressive attitude and a reluctance to submit.

Uses: Whenever you're wounded. Potence.

Vigorous: A combination of energy, power, intensity and resistance to harm. Uses: Combat and athletic challenges when you're on the defensive. Wiry: Tight, streamlined, muscular strength.

Uses: Punching, kicking or grappling on combat. Acrobatic movements. Endurance lifting. Potence.

NEGATIVE PHYSICAL TRAITS

Clumsy: Lacking physical coordination, balance and grace. You are prone to stumbling and dropping objects.

Cowardly: In threatening situations, saving your own neck is all that is important. You might even flee when you have the upper hand, just out of habit.

Decrepit: You move and act as if you are old and infirm. You recover from physical damage slowly, you are unable to apply full muscular strength and you tire easily.

Delicate: Frail and weak in structure; you are damaged easily by physical harm. Docile: The opposite of the Ferocious and Tenacious Traits. You lack physical persistence, and you tend to submit rather than fighting long battles.

Flabby: Your muscles are underdeveloped. You cannot apply your strength well against resistance.

Lame: You are disabled in one or more limbs. The handicap can be as obvious as a missing leg or as subtle as a dysfunctional arm.

Character Creation and Traits

(81)

Lethargic: Slow and drowsy. You suffer from a serious lack of energy or motivation. Puny: You are weak and inferior in strength. This Trait could refer to diminutive size.

Sickly: Weak and feeble. Your body responds to physical stress as if it were in the throes of a debilitating illness. SOCIAL TRAITS

Charisma-related: Charismatic, Charming, Dignified, Eloquent, Expressive, Genial Manipulation-related: Beguiling, Commanding, Ingratiating, Persuasive Appearance-related: Alluring, Elegant, Gorgeous, Magnetic, Seductive Miscellaneous Social: Diplomatic, Empathetic, Intimidating, Friendly, Witty Alluring: An attractive and appealing presence that inspires desire in others. Uses: Seduction. Convincing others.

Beguiling: The skill of deception and illusion. You can twist the perceptions of others and lead them to believe what suits you.

Uses: Tricking others. Lying under duress.

Charismatic: The talent of inspiration and motivation, the sign of a strong leader. Uses: In a situation involving leadership or the achievement of leadership. Presence. Charming: Your speech and actions make you attractive and appealing to others. Uses: Convincing. Persuading. Presence.

Commanding: Impressive delivery of orders and suggestions. This Trait implies skill in the control and direction of others.

Uses: When you are seen as a leader.

Dignified: Something about your posture and body carriage appears honorable and aesthetically pleasing. You carry yourself well.

Uses: Presence. Defending against Social Challenges.

Diplomatic: Tactful, careful and thoughtful in speech and deed. Few are displeased with what you say or do.

Uses: Very important in intrigue. Leadership situations.

Elegant: Refined tastefulness. Even though you don't need money to be elegant, you exude an air of richness and high society.

Uses: High society or Toreador parties. Might be important in some clans for advancement. Defending against Social Challenges.

Eloquent: The ability to speak in an interesting and convincing manner. Uses: Convincing others. Swaying emotions. Public speaking. Presence. Empathetic: Able to identify and understand the emotions and moods of people with whom you come in contact.

Uses: Gauging the feelings of others.

Expressive: Able to articulate your thoughts in interesting, meaningful ways. Uses: Producing art of any kind. Acting. Performing. Any social situation in which you want someone to understand your meaning.

Friendly: Able to fit in with everyone you meet. Even after a short conversa- tion, most find it difficult to dislike you.

Uses: Convincing others.

Genial: Cordial, kindly, warm and pleasant. You are pleasing to be around. Uses: Mingling at parties. Presence. Generally used in a second or later Social Challenge with someone.

Lases of the Night

82

Gorgeous: Beautiful or handsome. You were born with a face and body that is good-looking to most people you meet.

Uses: Modeling, posing.

Ingratiating: Able to gain the favor of people who know you.

Uses: Dealing with elders in a social situation. Defending against Social Challenges. Intimidating: A frightening or awesome presence that causes others to feel timid. This Trait is particularly useful when attempting to cow opponents.

Uses: Inspiring common fear. Ordering others.

Magnetic: People feel drawn to you; those around you are interested in your speech and actions.

Uses: Seduction. First impressions.

Persuasive: Able to propose believable, convincing and correct arguments and requests. Very useful when someone else is undecided on an issue.

Uses: Persuading or convincing others.

Seductive: Able to entice and tempt. You can use your good looks and your body to get what you want from others."

Uses: Subterfuge, seduction.

Witty: Cleverly humorous. Jokes and jests come easily to you, and you are perceived as a funny person when you want to be.

Uses: At parties. Entertaining someone. Goading or insulting someone. NEGATIVE SOCIAL TRAITS

Bestial: You have started to resemble the Beast of your vampiric nature. Maybe you have clawlike fingernails, heavy body hair or a feral glint in your eyes; however your Beast manifests, you definitely seem inhuman.

Callous: You are unfeeling, uncaring and insensitive to the suffering of others. Condescending: You just can't help it; your contempt for others is impossible to hide.

Dull: Those with whom you speak usually find you boring and uninteresting. Conversing with you is a chore. You do not present yourself well to others.

Feral: The animalistic predator in you is evident in your actions. You scratch yourself, sniff at people or otherwise behave in a primitive fashion.

Naive: You lack the air of worldliness, sophistication or maturity that most carry. Obnoxious: You are annoying or unappealing in speech, action or appearance. Repugnant: Your appearance disgusts everyone around you. Needless to say, you make a terrible first impression with strangers.

Shy: You are timid, bashful, reserved and socially hesitant.

Tactless: You are unable to do or say things that others find appropriate to the social situation.

Untrustworthy: You are rumored or perceived to be unreliable, whether or not you really are.

MENTAL TRAITS

Perception-related: Attentive, Discerning, Insightful, Observant, Vigilant Intelligence-related: Cunning, Disciplined, Knowledgeable, Rational, Reflective Wits-related: Alert, Clever, Intuitive, Shrewd, Wily

Miscellaneous Mental: Creative, Dedicated, Determined, Patient, Wise

Alert: Mentally prepared for danger and able to react quickly when it occurs. Uses: Preventing surprise attacks. Defending against Dominate.

Character Creation and Trails

(83

Attentive: You pay attention to everyday occurrences around you. When something extraordinary happens, you are usually ready for it.

Uses: Preventing surprise attacks. Seeing through Obfuscate when you don't expect it. Preventing Dominate.

Clever: Quick-witted resourcefulness. You think well on your feet.

Uses: Using a Mental Challenge against another.

Creative: Your ideas are original and imaginative, which implies an ability to produce unusual solutions to your difficulties. You can create artistic pieces. A requirement for any true artist.

Uses: Defending against Auspex. Creating anything.

Cunning: Crafty and sly, possessing a great deal of ingenuity.

Uses: Tricking others.

Dedicated: You give yourself over totally to your beliefs. When one of your causes is at stake, you stop at nothing to succeed.

Uses: Useful in any Mental Challenge when your beliefs are at stake. Determined: When it comes to mental endeavors, you are fully committed. Nothing can divert your intentions to succeed once you have made up your mind.

Uses: Staredowns. Useful in a normal Mental Challenge.

Discerning: Discriminating, able to pick out details, subtleties and idiosyncra- sies. You have clarity of vision.

Uses: Auspex. Investigation and tracking.

Disciplined: Your mind is structured and controlled. This rigidity gives you an edge in battles of will.

Uses: Thaumaturgy. Staredowns. Useful in a Mental Challenge.

Insightful: The power of looking at a situation and gaining an understanding of it. Uses: Investigation (but not defense against it). Auspex.

Intuitive: Knowledge and understanding somehow come to you without conscious reasoning, as if by instinct.

Uses: Spontaneous deduction.

Knowledgeable: You know copious and detailed information about a wide variety of topics. This Trait represents "book-learning."

Uses: Forgetful Mind tests. Remembering information your character might know. Employing Thaumaturgy.

Observant: Depth of vision, the power to look at something and notice the important aspects of it.

Uses: Auspex. Picking up on subtleties that others might overlook. Patient: Tolerant, persevering and steadfast. You can wait out extended delays with composure.

Uses: Staredowns or other mental battles after another Trait has been bid. Rational: You believe in logic, reason, sanity and sobriety. Your ability to reduce concepts to a mathematical level helps you analyze the world.

Uses: Defending against emotion-oriented mental attacks. Defending against an aura-reading. Not used as an initial bid.

Reflective: Meditative self-recollection and deep thought. The Trait of the serious thinker, Reflective enables you to consider all aspects of a conundrum.

Uses: Meditation. Remembering information. Defending against most. Mental Challenges.

Lives of the Night

84

Shrewd: Astute and artful, able to keep your wits about you and accomplish mental feats with efficiency and finesse.

Uses: Defending against a Mental Discipline.

Vigilant: Watchful. You have the disposition of a guard dog, your attention misses little. Uses: Defending against investigation or Forgetful Mind. Seeing through Obfuscate. Auspex. More appropriate for mental defense than for attack.

Wily: Sly and full of guile. Because you are wily, you can trick and deceive easily. Uses: Tricking others. Lying under duress. Confusing mental situations. Wise: An overall understanding of the workings of the world. Uses: Giving advice. Dispensing snippets of Zen.

NEGATIVE MENTAL TRAITS

Forgetful: You have trouble remembering even important things.

Gullible: Easily deceived, duped or fooled.

Ignorant: Uneducated or misinformed, never seeming to know anything. Impatient: Restless, anxious and generally intolerant of delays. You want everything to go your way- immediately.

Oblivious: Unaware and unmindful. You'd be lucky if you noticed an airplane flying through your living room.

Predictable: Because you lack originality or intelligence, even strangers can figure out what you intend to do next.

Shortsighted: Lacking foresight. You rarely look beyond the superficial; details of perception are usually lost on you.

Submissive: No backbone; you relent and surrender at any cost rather than stand up for yourself.

Violent: An extreme lack of self-control. You fly into rages at the slightest provocation, and frenzy is always close to the surface. This Trait is a Mental one because it represents mental instability.

Witless: Lacking the ability to process information quickly. Foolish and slow to act when threatened.

ABILITIES

The particular bits of knowledge learned over the years, the tricks of the trade and the hard-won secrets of crafts are all Abilities. A character's Ability Traits represent special training or talent, and as such, they often allow performance of tasks that would be otherwise impossible. Even with more mundane situations, Abilities allow for a much improved chance of success.

When a character performs a risky or uncertain action, Abilities aid the outcome. If you try a task and fail, you can temporarily expend one of your appropriate Abilities, to gain an immediate retest. You lose the Ability used and the initial Trait(s) bid for the task (if any) because you lost the initial test, but you can still overcome the challenge. Abilities used like this are recovered at the next game session.

A character with multiple levels in a given Ability is certainly more experienced and proficient than an individual with just one. Most characters will fall into one to three levels of Ability; greater amounts are very rare, and anything beyond five levels is almost certainly superhuman (and limited to elder vampires and their ilk). The total level of Ability in a given field corresponds roughly to the character's professional capabilities:

Competent (Able to earn a living)

Professional (Licensed, capable of supervision)

Character Creation and Trails

Journeyman (Bachelor's degree or instructor)

Expert (Master's degree or researcher)

Master (Doctorate or true innovator)

Some tasks are simply too difficult, or they require too much skill, to be attempted by a character without the requisite Abilities. The Storyteller may occasionally require the possession or use of an Ability Trait to perform a specific task. In this case, characters without the Ability, or who have already used all of their levels of the Ability, cannot attempt the task at all.

When an Ability is used against a set scenario or object (such as using Security to pick a lock), the feat usually has a difficulty assigned by the Storyteller. In such a Static Challenge, you may be required to risk a Trait for a trivial task, or even be asked to bid two or more Traits for a difficult, risky or frustrating undertaking.

Some Abilities can be used against an opponent instead of facilitating a regular task. In this case, the Ability is expended to gain a retest in a challenge with the opponent. See the rules for challenges and retests on p. 195 for complete details. FOCUSING ABILITIES

A few Abilities specifically require a concentrated area of study. One cannot simply study all Crafts at once, after all. These Abilities are specifically noted in the descriptions. When you take such an Ability, you must choose an area of study, a specific topic that you have concentrated on. Each area is considered a separate Ability, so Science: Biology counts completely separately from Science: Metallurgy, for instance.

ABILITY SPECIALIZATIONS

Within a given area of expertise, some practitioners further hone their knowl- edge to a razor's edge. By choosing a specialization in an Ability, you hone your skills with a particular facet of that talent.

Ability specializations are a wholly optional rule. Remember to ask your Storyteller before taking a specialization.

Taking a specialization requires that you spend one Experience Trait or Free Trait on an Ability that you already have. Whenever you perform a task with that specializa- tion-even if you do not expend the Ability-you gain a one-Trait bonus on resolution of challenges, as long as you have at least one level of the Ability left. You may only have one specialization in any given Ability; you cannot take Firearms: Pistols and Firearms: Rifles together, for instance. You also can never gain more than one Bonus Trait at a time from specializations, even if more than one would be appropriate to a given challenge. That is, even if you have Medicine: Physiology and Science: Biology Research, you only get a one-Trait bonus on a test of biochemistry, despite your multiple specializations.

A specialization is a fairly narrow area of research or practice. You cannot, for instance, take a Firearms specialization in "guns," nor could you have an Occult specialization of "writing." An appropriate specialization refers to one small class of items or to one type of practice within the Ability, such as Firearms: Antique Pistols or Occult: Superstitions.

You may take a specialization in an Ability with an area of study. In such a case, you concentrate your research in one particular facet of that sub-Ability, or in one application of it. Thus, you could have Crafts: Woodworking with a specialization in Hidden, Panels, or Science: Botany with a specialization in Exotic Flora.

Note that the Bonus Trait from a specialization does not have an adjective, and it is not bid or used like other Traits. You simply are "one Trait up" on challenges within the specialization.

Example: Marcus von Schlagenhanz is an experienced Brujah fighter, but he is especially good with fencing weapons. He has the Ability: Melee x3 with the specialization: Fencing. When Marcus

Laws of the Night

engages a foe in combat, he normally uses his 11 Physical Traits. With a fencing blade, however, he has 12 Physical Traits because of his intense training. Of course, if he gets tired out or wounded (loses several challenges), he may not have as many Traits, but as long as he has at least one level of his Melee Ability left, he gets to add the one Bonus Trait to his remaining Physical Trait total.

Academics

You possess a level of education and general knowledge beyond rudimentary schooling. With Academics, you can express artistic criticism, debate the classics, consider philosophy and indulge in studies of culture. This broad Ability covers all sorts of humanities in learning.

Academics allows you to recognize historical, art and cultural references. You can use Academics when working in such fields, when developing a critique or researching. Calling on Academics Ability may require a Mental or Social Challenge to determine your exact level of competence.

You may further direct your studies by choosing a specific field, such as Art Criticism, Classical Studies, History, Journalism, Theology or anything else that could be studied with higher education.

Animal Ken

Most animals find Kindred frightening. With Animal Ken, you have learned to understand animals, and you can sometimes deal with them more equitably. Though they may retain a healthy fear of the predator lurking within you, you know what drives them and how to assuage their fears.

Animal Ken is often used with the Animalism Discipline. With Animal Ken, you can train an animal (especially a ghoul) into particular behaviors (stay, fetch, attack), or attempt to deduce an animal's state of being (injured, angry, frightened, etc.) with a Mental Challenge. If you work with an animal over a long period of time (generally a month or so), you may be able to teach it a simple trick, up to a limit of one trick for each Mental Trait that the animal has.

Athletics

Whether due to a background in sports or just personal talent, you are skilled in all manner of athletic endeavors. You can throw a ball, sprint, climb, jump and swim. This last can be especially useful to vampires, who do not naturally float.

Your Athletics Ability is used for retests on most forms of raw physical activity: acrobatics, swimming, jumping, throwing, climbing and running. You may choose to focus on something you do especially well.

Awareness

You have a talent for knowing when things are not as they should be, whether by that strange feeling in the pit of your gut or through tested observation. This is particularly useful for sensing when other supernatural creatures about, detecting evidence of Numina or other strange phenomena, or just getting that weird feeling when the laws of nature are about to take a hard left.

Awareness requires a Mental Challenge to use, and retests are made with the Occult Ability. Brawl

Back-alleys, martial arts schools and rough bars are your stomping ground. You might have military training, or maybe you just grew up with a passel of rough- and-tumble siblings. Whatever the case, you know how to dish out damage with your fists and feet.

Use the Brawl Ability for retests in combat when you are using your natural weapons (teeth, claws or fists). This Ability is also the province of the martial arts, although you should specify which art when taking this Ability.

Character Creation and Trails

Computer

Most Cainites have difficulty adapting to modern inventions. As a result, an understanding of cutting-edge technology makes for dangerous knowledge. With the Computer Ability, you understand how to use, program and access computers of all sorts. Use Computer with a Mental Challenge (difficulty determined by the Storyteller) to break into systems, alter data, write programs or figure out unfamiliar operations.

Crafts

You can build things. Depending on your area of expertise, you know how to manufacture items and make handy tools or decorations. You must choose a focus for Crafts, specifying your form of creation: Carpentry, Clockworks, Blacksmithing, Leatherworking and the like are all possibilities. You can fashion works of art, studying Painting, Drawing or similar physical media. Crafts also covers more technical skills done with labor, such as Mechanics and Electronics.

Making or repairing an item with Crafts usually involves a Physical Challenge of your dexterity, with difficulty set by the Storyteller based on the type of job (making a concealed spring-loaded trap is far more difficult than planing a board, for instance). Artistic works designed with Crafts x 3 or better may entrance Toreador, at the discretion of the Storyteller.

The Tzimisce practice a focus of Body Crafts when using Vicissitude. This Ability covers tattooing, piercing, flaying and all other applications thereof regarding the alteration of the body.

Dodge

When trouble rears its ugly head, you know how to get out of its way. Unhesitating reactions let you evade blows and shots, getting out of the way of injury. You can use Dodge against any attack that you're aware of: diving for cover as someone fires a gun or twisting away from a sword, for instance. Dodge may be used as a retest when defending against an attack that you can see or sense coming.

Drive

Though most people can drive in the modern age, you can drive well. You're equally at home with a stick shift or an automatic, rush hour is no concern and you can get the most performance out of a car. In dangerous situations, you can evade traffic and even use your vehicle as a weapon. Bear in mind that just because you can drive a station wagon doesn't mean you can drive a semi with equal ease. A Mental Challenge may be required to allow you to figure out where everything is in an unfamiliar vehicle.

Drive tests most often involve a Physical Challenge of your reflexes. Empathy

You are sensitive to the moods and emotions of people around you. When you listen to someone, you understand her feelings. You can identify with others and tell when people are lying or holding back while talking to you.

With a Social Challenge and the expenditure of an Empathy Ability, you can determine if the last thing that someone said was a lie (although Subterfuge can defend against this expenditure). Alternately, you can attempt to determine the subject's current Demeanor.

Etiquette

Even though knowing which fork to use isn't as important to Kindred society, you do know the proper way to greet someone, when to rise and how to make introductions. You can hold a toast with the best of them, and you keep your cool in any social scenario, from high tea to a gang's rally.

The Etiquette Ability can be used with Social Tests to impress or blend in at parties. If you make a social faux pas, you may expend an Etiquette Ability immediately to negate the gaffe - your character knew better than to make the mistake.

Laws of the Night

Expression

Words and feelings flow freely from you. When the muse strikes, you put pen to paper (or fingers to instrument) and pour out a torrent of emotion and stirring imagery. You can convey message and meaning in your art, from symphonies to poetry, and whatever you write is both clear and moving.

When writing or composing, you can sink true Expression into the work. Works created with Expression x 3 or more have the potential to entrance Toreador, as per their clan weakness.

Finance

The world of money and business awaits your whim. You understand interest, CDs, stock market transactions, currency exchanges and GNPs. A little Finance lets you make quite a bit of money. You can also use your Finance to balance books or run a business of your own.

Typically, you can run a business, follow a money trail, perform an audit or clean up an accounting mess with a Mental Challenge (difficulty dependent on the task, as determined by the Storyteller). Alternately, you can expend a level of Finance Ability to raise $250 in cash between games. Not every use of Finance is so benign -money laundering operations have to come from somewhere.

Firearms

A little time at the gun range goes a long way. You know how to hold, fire and clean a gun. You can unjam one, too, and you can tell different models apart. You know how to stand to get the best aim, how to handle recoil and how to take care of problems in the field. If you possess the Firearms Ability, you may use your Mental Traits for gun combat instead of using Physical Traits, at no cost. You can expend Firearms for a retest in ranged-fire combat.

Hobby/Professional/Expert Ability

In a certain area of expertise not covered by another Ability, you have achieved some level of skill. You may have a small grasp of a trade due to some work on the side, or perhaps you've specifically studied a topic.

Hobby/ Professional/ Expert Ability is a catch-all category for highly unusual Abilities like Cainite Lore, Thanatology, Demolitions and so on. Any Ability of this type must be specifically approved by the Storyteller, and it has its capabilities defined by the Storyteller.

Intimidation

Intimidation represents any of a broad variety of techniques for terrifying people into compliance. This could be anything from physical size, to a particularly frightening grin, to knowing which emotional buttons to push.

You can use Intimidation when trying to scare someone with a Social Challenge, or with certain Disciplines.

Investigation

You know how to pick up clues and put together disparate pieces of information. By habit and training, you can set a jumbled mass of data into order, discovering identities, motives and patterns in an otherwise chaotic scene. You can use Investigation with a Mental Challenge when trying to puzzle out meaning to a random scene, or with most Auspex Discipline powers.

Law

Nobody is above the law, except those who know how to use it to their own advantage. You're one of the latter. Perhaps you uphold the law, or maybe you twist it to your own ends. Your knowledge of Law allows you to understand legal processes, courts and lawyers, and to use them effectively.

Character Creation and Trails

Use the Law Ability in court situations or with Social Challenges involving legal matters. Because the legal body is so vast, your Storyteller may require you to select a particular area of study (Criminal, Civil, Tax, etc.). Alternately, you may choose to study Kindred law in depth.

Leadership

When you speak, people listen. A good speaking voice and self-confidence lend a powerful presence to a leader. The Leadership Ability represents your ability to motivate people and to get them to follow your guidance. Even among those who do not know or respect you, you can demand attention.

You can use Leadership with a Social Challenge to try to get a minor favor or task from a character. Leadership is also used with many Presence powers.

Linguistics

You've studied a language or languages other than your native tongue. Whether you're an older vampire whose childhood language is no longer spoken, you frequent the global community, or it is necessary for other studies, you can speak, write and read other languages.

You must choose one language for each level of Linguistics you possess. Thus, you could have Linguistics: Cantonese and Linguistics: German. Alternately, you can focus on the underlying study of Linguistics itself, granting some understanding of the principles behind the structure of language. Languages need not be spoken; Ameri- can Sign Language or Egyptian hieroglyphics would also be considered fields for study. Those who wish to converse in another language (but cannot actually do so) should hold up one hand with the first finger and thumb making an L-shape to indicate to other players the characters are not speaking English. Those who wish to listen in must also possess the language.

Medicine

You know how the human (and, to a lesser extent, Cainite) body functions. You can speed the recovery and healing of an injured mortal, or you can use your knowledge to inflict injury. Many Cainites learn just enough to know where to bite their victims or how to punish their ghouls.

You can use the Medicine Ability to speed a mortal's healing by one category: a Wounded mortal would heal as if Bruised, for instance. Medicine may be used for other sorts of research and lab work with a Mental Challenge. As Medicine represents such a vast field, your Storyteller may require you to specify what you know (Pharmaceuticals, Internal Medicine, General Practice).

Melee

If you've got something in your hands, you're a deadly fighter. Be it a sword, a stick or a set of nunchaku, you can use it to damaging effect. Expend Melee for retests in hand-to-hand combat when you are using a close combat weapon like a knife or a chair. Certain weapons function best when wielded by a character with Melee.

Occult

The hidden world teems with mysterious secrets. By unlocking universal keys and studying the basics of spirituality, you can learn the shadowy paths of the cosmos. Your Occult Ability serves as a general knowledge of the supernatural, alerting you to the existence of many varied sorts of inhuman creatures and paranormal events. Some Disciplines, most notably Thaumaturgy, rely on the Occult Ability. Occult grants some basic (and sometimes erroneous) knowledge of the various denizens of the supernatural world; for more detailed information, study Expert Ability: Lore in your particular subject of interest.

Laws of the Night

(90

Performance

You are a true virtuoso. Whatever your chosen medium, you have a gift for artistic endeavors. Whether playing an instrument, singing, dancing or acting, your skills allow you to entertain and even earn money.

Your Performance Ability can be used to earn a modest income, just like other artistic trade skills. If you execute a work with Performance x 3 or better, you may transfix Toreador in the area with the beauty and grace of your style.

You must choose a specific art form when you take Performance, such as playing an instrument, singing, acting or dramatic readings. Note that Performance is generally anything done before an audience, while Expression most often focuses on literary works, and Crafts concentrates on the creation of physical objects (such as paintings or sculptures).

Politics

The world of influence-trading and favors is extensive enough among mortals. In vampire society, where one's prowess is measured in standing with one's peers, the game of Politics is all-consuming. Through observation, intrigue and a bit of spin- doctoring, you've learned how to handle appearances, what a speech really means, and where the deal-making is going on. In short, it's Politics as usual.

The Politics Ability is useful primarily in dealings with mortal society or Influence. You may be able to manipulate the outcome of local political actions, with the proper Influence and some well-placed Social Challenges; Politics Ability ensures that matters proceed in the direction that you desire. Politics is also used to discern hidden motives and broker deals, and as such, it is almost a requirement of any harpy. With Politics, you can usually set an appropriate level of debt for a prestation boon. The hierarchies of power are often obvious to you, granting you insight into whether the prince is really in charge, or is simply a puppet of the primogen, for example. Politics also makes you aware of who's in favor and who's out, and you can determine how much Status a particular vampire possesses once introduced. (If you know your quarry's name, expend a Politics Ability to determine the subject's Status Traits.)

A knowledge of Politics includes, by extension, an understanding of the bureau- cratic levels of power. You know how to cut through red tape, or how to obstruct others with it. By determining who's important in a given strata, you can usually avoid wasting time and simply go straight to the person with the power to do what you want.

Repair

You possess a working understanding of what makes things tick. With times, tools and parts, you can fix or slightly alter most of the trappings of modern society. This knowledge also allows you to excel at sabotage. The Repair Ability is widespread among inventors, mechanics and handymen. Using this Ability usually calls for a Mental Challenge, the difficulty of which depends on such factors as the item's complexity, tools and parts available, extent of damage and time spent on the repairs.

Science

The modern Information Age sees the explosion of all manner of studies. Categorizing and breaking down the world into many different forms, the methods of logic and reason give sentient beings the means to understand the universe, or at least small pieces of it. Education in Science covers techniques of inquiry, modern studies and a broad range of underpinning work in a diverse range of fields.

Science Ability requires an area of particular study: Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Metallurgy, Electrical Engineering, Mathematics, Geology and Botany are all possibilities, though such a list is far from comprehensive. Combining a Science with different fields may give a wide variety results. For example, Science: Metallurgy with Academics may

Character Creation and Traits

(91)

give results regarding historical research and theory, while the same Science with Occult may center around ancient alchemy or parapsychology. Actually constructing objects or devices theorized with Science may require use of the Crafts Ability.

Using a particular branch of Science usually requires a Mental Challenge of some sort to determine the success of research or the viability of theoretical work.

Security

Whichever side of the law you've worked on has granted you experience in Security techniques. You know about police operations and guard work, how they make their schedules and how they undertake their business-and how to disrupt such operations. Locks, traps, security systems and alarms are all within your purview. With a little time, you can put together Security measures for a location; you can also defeat such measures.

Use the Security Ability with Mental Traits to set up a secure area or network, or to formulate a plan for breaching such a network. Security Ability is also used to disarm traps, alarms and other devices, and to defeat locks. At the discretion of a Narrator, you may be required to use a Physical Trait related to dexterity when attempting to bypass a physical lock or alarm.

Scrounge

You're exceptionally good at finding stuff. Whether it's a crucial part for a 1890s' gramaphone, invitations to the most exclusive gallery opening in town, or just haven space in the downtown, you're a wiz at knowing where to go, who to talk to and how to get what you need. Granted, the things you get are rarely brand-new or exactly right and do take time and favors to acquire. Still such an ability is useful when your finances are less than sparkling or theft is out of the question.

Scrounge is typically used in conjunction with Mental Traits (although the Storyteller may occasionally require a Social Challenge for haggling), and can be useful when looking for particular items or searching a place that is in shambles.

Stealth

By blending into cover, blurring your lines and moving carefully and quietly, you can evade notice or sneak past people. You know how best to take advantage of surrounding cover and how to use light and shadow. Opportunities for unnoticed movement are not lost on you, as you understand the uses of timing and diversion.

With an appropriate Physical Challenge, you can sometimes sneak past the notice of guards and searchers (who contest your Ability with their Mental Traits and Investigation Ability). You also use Stealth to augment the Obfuscate Discipline.

Streetwise

Word on the street is known to you. Even if you don't have any particular friends or contacts in the area, you know about the different communities and gangs that hang out in town. You recognize tagging and other territorial markers, and you know some of the signs, colors and clothes that denote street people, homeless, gangbangers, hoodlums, criminals and social workers.

Using the Streetwise Ability, with your Mental Traits, lets you recognize the influence of various gangs or street communities. You also know about criminal organizations and activities, and you could perform a little larceny yourself. An appropriate Social Challenge can help smooth dealings with a hostile gang (though you may need Etiquette to make a really good impression).

Subterfuge

There are many ways to talk about subjects, and equally many ways to uncover the truth of the matter. Even in idle conversation, people use little white lies, slip hints about their true motives, try to guide the course of discussion and give away their secrets indirectly. The art of Subterfuge is the art of reading these tricks and using them effortlessly.

Laws of the Night

92

When someone confronts you with one of your lies, you can use the Subterfuge Ability in your own defense (if someone uses the Empathy Ability, for instance). By guiding a conversation, you can also unearth someone's Negative Traits; if you manage to steer conversation to a particular topic in play, you can expend a Subterfuge Ability and make a Social Challenge to determine one of the subject's Negative Traits related to the topic. Furthermore, because it deals in deceit and subversion, Subterfuge is used for retests with the Chimerstry Discipline.

Survival

Survival Ability represents a knowledge of terrain, how to find shelter, where to find water, techniques in hunting, edible and poisonous plants and fungi and so on. Though a vampire needs only blood to live, use of Survival makes hunting of animals much easier, and it provides some assurances of a safer existence for those who travel outside the cities.

Hunting and avoiding danger in the wilderness usually relies on a Physical Challenge. With Survival, you can substitute your Mental Traits if you so desire. Survival is also a measure of the character's ruggedness and ability to overcome obstacles and injury, so it can be used in retests of the Fortitude and Protean Disciplines.

BACKGROUNDS

Your character's Backgrounds help to flesh out ties with mortal agencies, role in vampire society and beneficial resources available. Each Background is used differ- ently. In general, having multiple Traits in a given Background allows for better or more common use of that benefit. Some Background directly affect your character's creation and development; others are called into play later during the game. ALLIES

A few friends, either kept from your mortal days or made after the Embrace, help you out in your endeavors. You can make a few calls and cut a few deals to get assistance in a wide range of activities. Your Storyteller will probably require you to define how you keep your allies and their relations to you.

Each Allies Trait possessed represents one person that you can call on for aid. Unlike Influence, your Allies have special talents that make them better than the average person on the street. Though your allies may not be aware of your vampire nature, they can be quite useful if directed properly.

In general, your allies do not show up in play directly. Instead, you can use them for certain services between play sessions, by notifying your Storyteller:

An ally can be directed to follow up on research or activities that you have started. If you undertook a specific task previously, like tailing someone, researching a projector building adevice, your allies can continue the work, doing so with one Ability Trait's worth of expertise. As long as they work on the project, your Allies Trait for the individual is tied up.

• If you need a particularly competent ally, you can expend multiple Traits to gain access to a mortal with multiple levels of an Ability or Influence. Each Allies Trait that you spend after the first gives an extra level of expertise to your allies. They may use this expertise on your behalf, though rarely with your own skill, and they only help as long as you tie up your Allies Background Traits in this manner.

An ally can help you to hunt, though obviously, it's not a good idea to rely on your allies as blood sources, or to even tell them exactly what they're doing when they bring people to you. Each Trait of Allies that you use for hunting lets you make a Simple Test. A win or tie grants you one additional Blood Trait. Doing so counts as a project that lasts for the entire time between game sessions.

Be wary of calling on your allies too often. An ally may call on you for mutual aid or refuse to help if pressed into dangerous or illegal activities.

Character Creation and Trails

CONTACTS

With the right contacts in all walks of life, you can get a line on all sorts of useful information. Although having an "ear to the wall" doesn't necessarily provide you with good help or loyal servants, it does mean that you know who to ask when looking for the movers and shakers behind the scenes.

In game terms, your rating in Contacts allows you to discern rumors and information. When you call on your contacts, you make a few phone calls, check with likely snitches and grease a few palms. In return, you get rumors and information as if possessed of a certain amount of Influence. Doing so lets you find out exactly what's going on in the city within a particular area. You can get information of a level equal to however many contacts you use. If you use Contacts x 3 on Industry, for instance, you get information as if digging up dirt with Industry x 3 Influence. The advantage of the Contacts Background is that contacts can be switched from place to place each game, getting information in different areas at your demand.

Using Contacts for especially dangerous or secret information may require you to spend some money or perform a few favors, at the discretion of a Storyteller. On occasion, accidents can cause contacts in one area to dry up, such as a strike that affects your Industry contacts, or a particularly unlucky astronomical conjunction sends your Occult contacts running for the hills. Your contacts will not generally function as aides or lackeys; that is the purview of the Allies and Retainers Backgrounds.

Example: Langley, a Nosferatu, has Contacts x 5. This month, his player, Robert, decides that Langley is going to engage in a little corporate espionage. Robert allocates Contacts x 4 to Industry, learning about local projects and where they're bound for; he leaves one level of Contacts in reserve, for life's little emergencies. Next month, he plans to use his contacts to find an Underworld buyer for his secrets.

FAME

Some vampires are Embraced from among the ranks of the wealthy or talented elite. As a result, many Cainites can make a claim to some distinction in their breathing days. Though such notoriety often fades with the years, your Fame lingers on to influence mortal society.

Fame allows you to exercise your connections over a longer distance than usual. Certainly, if you've got the right Influence, you can push things around on an interstate or even national scale, but with Fame, you can just make a few calls and get your Contacts, Influence or Resources exerted over a greater range without any impediment. This is not to say you must have Fame to get anything done, only that it may help. Your total Fame determines your maximum range for unimpeded use of your Contacts, Influence and Resources.

When you make an effort to exert your Contacts, Influence or Resources over a long range, you lean on your popularity and image, thus expending your Fame Traits until the next game session. Fame is most often used in the downtime between sessions to facilitate long-range plans.

FAME RANGES

Maximum Range for Backgrounds Local scene

Fame Traits

Fame x

Fame x 2

City

Fame x 3

State

Fame x 4

Adjoining states

Fame x 5

Entire country

Laws of the Night

94

In a less mechanical fashion, your Fame also dictates how recognizable you are to mortals, for one reason or another. The Storyteller will certainly make the effects of your Fame apparent, and mortals may take notice of you at bothersome times. Being profiled on "America's Most Wanted" or spotted at the Academy Awards does things to one's repuation, after all.

Fame does have its limitations. It makes little sense for you to have this Background if you're known to be dead in the mortal world. Also, Fame does not always indicate widespread instant name recognition; you may only be known to a subset of a particular group, or a recognized expert in a field who's unknown to those outside.

GENERATION

Generation. Thirteen

Max. Traits Max. Abilities

Blood

Willpower

10

5

10/1

2/6

Twelve

10

5

11/1

2/8

Eleven

11

5

12/1

4/8

Ten

12

5

13/1

4/10

Nine

13

5

14/2

6/10

Eight

14

5

15/3

6/12

Seven

16

6

20/5

7/14

Six

18

7

30/6

8/16

Five

20

8

40/8

9/18

25

9

50/10

10/20

30

Four

Three

Max. Traits shows your maximum number of total Traits in your primary area of development. As an optional rule, your Storyteller may lower this quantity by one in your secondary Attribute and by two in your tertiary Attribute, meaning that you will always have your best potential in your strongest original Attribute area. This limit does not count against Bonus Traits, but you can never claim more than twice your maximum Traits even with bonuses.

Max. Abilities is the maximum levels you can take in any one Ability. With a maximum of five, for instance, you cannot advance beyond Melee x5, though you may take multiple focused Abilities (Crafts: Woodworking x 5 and Crafts: Leatherworking x 5). Optionally, your Storyteller may allow you to exceed this limit by one in one Ability in which you have a particular area of study.

Blood is your maximum number of Blood Traits. You can hold that amount of blood in your system. The number after the slash is how many Blood Traits you can spend in any given turn. Optionally, your Storyteller may choose to use a "compressed pool" for ease of play. Under such a system, characters have half the Blood Traits listed here, rounded up, but all other functions remain the same (exception: the Thaumaturgy Path of Conjuring Blood Trait costs are also halved, rounding up; characters come into play with two Traits of blood if they lose a Blood Test at the beginning of a game). This system makes for faster combat resolution and less bookkeeping, but it also makes vampires less powerful. All vampires in a system should use the same Blood Trait scale.

Willpower lists your starting Willpower Traits before the slash, and your maximum Willpower Traits after the slash. Should the Storyteller choose to use the compressed Blood Pool, characters have half the Willpower listed (rounded up).

Character Creation and Trails

(95)

GENERATION

Generation is the measure of one's fundamental closeness to Caine. Each vampire is Embraced from a long chain of sire to childe, and the blood weakens with each passing. Those Embraced by a sire closer in the chain to Caine and the Antediluvians find that their blood is strengthened by that proximity. The less scrupulous among the younger generations steal this power through the foul process of diablerie. Since a vampire's sheer power and eventual potential are limited by Generation, much of vampire society is ordered by those of low Generation (close to Caine) while the neonates of weak, thin blood and high Generation (many steps removed) champ at a bit that cannot be removed.

You must spend one Background or Free Trait for each Generation purchased. Thus, if your character is of the 10th generation, you must spend three Background or Free Traits for this privilege. The Storyteller may place a limit on how low the generation spread may go. The total number of Traits placed in this Background determines your exact generation. You start at the 13th generation, and drop one generation for each Trait spent thus, with five Traits of Generation, you are of the eighth generation removed from Caine. (You could theoretically have a "negative generation" by taking the Flaw Fourteenth Generation-see p. 114.)

Your generation affords great power, for it determines your ultimate potential and raw potency of blood. However, being of low generation also makes you a tempting target for would-be diablerists, who seek to steal your vitae to enrich their own. HERD

Whether surrounding yourself with mortal cultists, or just making sure that you have regular access to a blood bank, your herd gives you a guaranteed volume of blood for feeding. You don't have to go very far to hunt; your herd, when available to you, offers you a safe and easy way to sustain your powers.

You should work with your Storyteller to describe the exact nature of your herd, since these Traits can be lost through hazards or deliberate sabotage. You could have mortals who are conditioned to enjoy the Kiss, access to medical blood supplies outside of the normal channels or a religious cult that gives you blood freely. Each Trait of Herd can be used to gain one extra Blood Trait once per session. You can do this immediately on entering the game to represent that you have previously fed, thus improving your blood from your starting Traits for the evening (based on your Blood Test, as described on p. 106). You can also take 15 minutes out of play to call on a herd and gain a Blood Trait. You can split up Herd Traits if you wish, so you may use some Traits to start with extra blood, then use more later to replace spent vitae.

Members of your herd (assuming it is composed of people and not plastic bags) are not necessarily particularly competent or loyal-they simply let you feed from them. You must take Allies or Retainers if you want them to do other tasks for you.

Example: Xavier, a 10th-generation Tremere, has Herd x 3. The player, Paul, ties on his Blood Test as he enters play. He starts with half his blood pool (rounded up), or seven Blood Traits. Paul decides to expend Herd x 1 to gain one additional Trait before play, placing him at eight Blood Traits. Later, after a particularly strenuous Thaumaturgical battle, he is in desperate need of sustenance, so the player marks off another Herd x 2 and spends 30 minutes out of play. Xavier returns with two extra Blood Traits. INFLUENCE

Mortal society builds on institutions. As humans raise their cities, they form gatherings of expertise that are manipulated by the Cainites hiding in their midst. If you

Lies of the Night

(90

have Influence, you can sway the direction of some areas of mortal society, pushing cities to grow as you direct. Your Influence can be used to strike indirectly at your foes while protecting your own assets, or to gain information and special resources.

Influence comes in many different areas. You must allocate Traits separately to each Influence; thus, if you have Legal x 4, you could still have Police x3 indepen- dently but you would have to spend the Traits for each.

You cannot manage more Influence than the sum of your permanent Physical, Social and Mental Traits combined. This limit counts against all of your total Influence your combined levels cannot exceed this total. After all, there are only so many things you can do in a night.

When you exercise Influence, you expend temporary Influence Traits. The tables for various Influence areas detail what you can do with a specific number of Traits. Performing an action requires a number of Traits equal to the level of the action; you must use three Traits to perform an action listed at the third level of an Influence chart, for instance. Thus, with high levels of Influence, you can perform many small actions, or a few significant ones.

Certain levels of Influence gift you with items, money or aides. Unlike the Resources Background, money and equipment garnered with Influence does not come automatically each month. If you want a steady income from Influence, you must direct your Influence in that direction continually, and this income does not come with any associated trappings of wealth (you'd have to buy a house and car separately, for instance). Aides garnered with Influence generally help only for one specific task, and they usually only have the equivalent of one level of Ability in their area of skill-for more competent and readily available help, take Allies.

Most cities have only a set amount of Influence in various areas. For instance, Atlanta has a great deal of Transportation Influence, because it is a hub of travel, while Hollywood would have a lot of High Society and Media Influence. A Rust-Belt city where manufacturing and heavy industry has all but disappeared would have very little to no Industry Influence. Storytellers should map out the total amount of each type of Influence to be had in the city. Once all of the Influence of a given type is used up, the only way to get more is to use Influence to grow that area of society (making new projects or sponsoring investment), to destroy someone else's Influence and thus free up those resources, or to acquire an adversary's Influence in an area. Also, each city may have different reflections of the Influences listed here. A city with a thriving independent film community is going to have a different picture of Media or High Society than a city where the arts are being literally starved out due to budget cuts.

Each area of Influence has its own description. Elder vampires may possess truly far- reaching Influence, giving them the power to exert control beyond the levels included here.

BUREAUCRACY

You can manage various government agencies and bureaus. By dealing with social programs and public servants, you can spin red tape, bypass rules and regulations or twist bureaucratic regimentation to your advantage. Bureaucracy is useful in operating or shutting down businesses, faking or acquiring permits and identification papers and manipulating public utilities and facilities. Government clerks at the city and county level, utility workers, road crews, surveyors and other civil servants are potential contacts or allies.

Cost

2

Effect

Trace utility bills

Fake a birth certificate or driver's license Disconnect a single small residence's utilities

Character Creation and Traits

3

4

Close a small road or park

Get public aid ($250)

Fake a death certificate, passport or green card Close a public school for a single day

Shut down a minor business on a violation Initiate a phone tap

Fake land deeds

Initiate a department-wide investigation

5

Start, stop or alter a city-wide program or policy

Shut down a big business on a violation

Rezone areas

CHURCH

Obliterate records of a person on a city or county level

Though the modern church has arguably less control over temporal society than it did in the Middle Ages, its policies still exert considerable influence over the direction of politics and communities. Knowing the appropriate people allows insight into many mainstream religions, such as Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Hinduism, Shinto or Buddhism (fringe or alternative groups, such as Scientology, are considered Occult). When you exercise Church Influence, you can change religious policy, affect the assignment of clergy and access a variety of lore and resources. Contacts and allies affected by Church Influence would include ministers, priests, bishops, Church- sponsored witch-hunters, holy orders and various attendees and assistants.

Cost

1

2

Effect

Identify most secular members of a given faith in the local area

Pass as a member of the clergy

Peruse general church records (baptism,

marriage, burial, etc.)

Identify higher church members

Track regular church members

3

4

5

HEALTH

Trace an unsecured small account

Raise capital to purchase a small business

(single, small store)

Purchase a large business (a few small branches

or a single large store or service)

Manipulate local banking (delay deposits, some

credit rating alterations)

Ruin a small business

Control an aspect of city-wide banking (shut off ATMs, arrange a bank "holiday") Ruin a large business

Purchase a major company

Some vampires rely on connections in the medical community to acquire blood. Necromancers and practitioners of arcane arts may also require body parts or medical data to further their studies. Furthermore, maintaining the Masquerade often calls for alteration of medical records or faking of particular diseases; some Cainites even specialize in the study of blood-borne ailments. All of these sorts of research and development fall under the purview of Health Influence. Coroners, doctors, lab workers, therapists, pharmacists and specialists are just a few of the folks found in this field.

Cost

1

2

3

Suspend lay members

3

Open or close a single church.

4

Find the average church-associated hunter

Dip into the collection plate ($250)

Access private information and archives of a church

4

Discredit or suspend high-level church members

Manipulate regional branches of the church

Organize major protests

5

FINANCE

Access ancient church lore and knowledge

Manipulating markets, stock reports and investments is a hobby of many Cainites, especially those who use their knowledge to keep hidden wealth. Though your actual available money is a function of your Resources, you can use Finance Influence to start or smother businesses, crush or support banking institutions and alter credit records. Clearly, such power over money is not to be trifled with fortunes are made and destroyed with this sort of pull. CEOs, bankers, stockbrokers, bank tellers, yes-men, financiers and loan agents are found among such work.

Effect

Cost

1

Learn about major transactions and financial events Raise capital ($1,000)

Learn about general economic trends

Learn real motivations for many financial actions of others

Laws of the Night

5

HIGH SOCIETY

Effect

Access a person's health records

Fake vaccination records and the like

Use public functions of health centers at your leisure Get a single Blood Trait of mortal blood

Access some medical research records

Have minor lab work done

Get a copy of a coroner's report

Instigate minor quarantines

Corrupt results of tests or inspections Alter medical records

Acquire a body

Completely rewrite medical records

Abuse grants for personal use ($250)

Have minor medical research performed on a subject

Institute large-scale quarantines

Shut down businesses for "health code violations" Have special research projects performed

Have people institutionalized or released

The glitterati at the top of society move in circles of wealth and elegance. Many Kindred find such positions alluring, and they indulge in the passions of the famous and wealthy. Access to famous actors, celebrities and the idle rich grants a certain sway over fashion trends. Combined with Fame, a modicum of High Society Influence turns a vampire into a debonair darling of the most exclusive social circles. Among these circles, one finds dilettantes, artists of almost any stripe, old money families, models, rock stars, sports figures and jetsetters.

Cost

1

Effect

Learn what is trendy

Obtain hard-to-get tickets for shows

Learn about concerts, shows or plays well before they are made public

Character Creation and Traily

99

3

4

INDUSTRY

Track most celebrities and luminaries Be a local voice in the entertainment field "Borrow" idle cash from rich friends ($1,000) Crush promising careers

Hobnob well above your station

Minor celebrity status

Get a brief appearance on a talk show that's not

about to be canceled

Ruin a new club, gallery, festival or other posh gathering

The grinding wheels of labor fuel the economies and markets of the world. Machines, factories and blue-collar workers line up in endless drudgery, churning out the staples of everyday living. Control over Industry Influence sways the formation of unions, the movements of work projects, locations for factories and the product of manufacturing concerns. Union workers, foremen, engineers, construction workers, manual laborers and all manner of blue-collar workers exist among these ranks.

Cost

3

4

5

LEGAL

Effect

Learn about industrial projects and movements Have minor projects performed

Dip into union funds or embezzle petty cash ($500) Arrange small accidents or sabotage

Organize minor strikes

Appropriate machinery for a short time Close down a small plant

Revitalize a small plant

Manipulate large local industry

Since many of the operations that Cainites undertake are at least marginally illegal, a good amount of sway over judges and lawyers is indispensable. Those Kindred who dabble in law often pull strings in the courts to make sure that the questionable practices of Cainite society go unnoticed and unpunished. Of course, a little Legal Influence is also excellent for harassing an enemy's assets, too. Such Influence ranges from law schools and firms, to lawyers, judges, DAs, clerks and public defenders.

Cost

1

2

3

5

MEDIA

Effect

Get free representation for minor cases Avoid bail for some charge Have minor charges dropped

Manipulate legal procedures

(minor wills and contracts, court dates) Access public or court funds ($250)

Get representation in most court cases Issue subpoenas

Tie up court cases

Have most legal charges dropped

Cancel or arrange parole

Close down all but the most serious investigations

Have deportation proceedings held against someone

Directing media attention away from vampire activities is a key component of the Masquerade. Putting specific emphasis on certain events can place an enemy in an uncomfortable spotlight or discredit a rival. With Media, you can crush or alter news stories, control the operations of news stations and reporters and sway public Lives of the Night

opinion, with DJs, editors of all varieties, reporters, cameramen, photographers and broadcasters at your disposal. At Storyteller discretion, Media Influence may also allow access to the more technical areas of television, radio or movies.

Cost 1

2

3

5

OCCULT

Effect

Learn about breaking stories early

Submit small articles (within reason)

Suppress (but not stop) small articles or reports

Get hold of investigative reporting information

Initiate news investigations and reports

Get project funding and waste it ($250)

Ground stories and projects

Broadcast fake stories (local only)

Kill small local articles or reports completely

The hidden world of the supernatural teems with secrets, conspiracies and unusual factions. Obviously, a vampire is aware that there are strange things out there by dint of his very existence (after all, if vampires exist...), but hard knowledge of such things is a function of Abilities. By using Occult Influence, you can dig up information to improve your knowledge, get inside the occult community and find rare components for magical rituals. Even parts of the elusive Book of Nod are available to those with the right connections. Cult leaders, alternative religious groups, charlatans, occultists, New Agers and a few more dangerous elements can be found here.

Cost

1

2

3

POLICE

Effect

Contact and make use of common occult groups and their practices

Know some of the more visible occult figures

Know and contact some of the more obscure occult figures

Access resources for most rituals and rites

Know the general vicinity of certain supernatural entities and (possibly) contact them

Access vital or rare material components

Milk impressionable wannabes for bucks ($250)

Access occult tomes and writings

Research a Basic ritual from your sect

Research an Intermediate ritual from your sect Access minor magic items

Unearth an Advanced ritual from your sect

"Toprotect and serve" is the motto of the police, but these days, Kindred and kine alike may have cause to wonder who is being protected and served. That said, Police Influence can be very handy to assist with the Masquerade, to protect one's holdings or to raid the assets of another. After all, attitude won't save the anarchs whose haven is the target of a daylight raid. Police of all ranks, detectives, clerical staff, dispatchers, prison guards, special divisions (such as SWAT or homicide) and local highway patrol make up these ranks.

Effect

Cost

I

Learn police procedures

Hear police information and rumors

Avoid traffic tickets

Have license plates checked

Avoid minor violations (first conviction)

2

Get "inside information"

3

Get copies of an investigation report

Character Creation and Trail

5

POLITICAL

Have police hassle, detain or harass someone

Find bureau secrets

Access confiscated weapons or contraband

Have some serious charges dropped

Start an investigation

Get money, either from the evidence room or as an appropriation ($1,000)

Institute major investigations Arrange setups

Instigate bureau investigations Have officers fired

Deal-making is second nature to most vampires, so they can get along very well with other bloodsuckers- that is, politicians. Altering party platforms, controlling local elections, changing appointed offices and calling in favors all falls under the purview of Political Influence. Well-timed blackmail, bribery, spin doctoring or any sundry tricks are stock in trade on both sides of this fence. Some

of the likely contacts and allies include pollsters, lobbyists, activists, party members, spin doctors and politicians from rural zoning committees to the mayors of major cities or Congressional representatives.

Cost

1

2

3

4

5

STREET

Effect

Minor lobbying

Identify real platforms of politicians and parties Be in the know

Meet small-time politicians

Garner inside information on processes, laws and the like

Use a slush fund or fund-raiser ($1,000)

Sway or alter political projects (local parks,

renovations, small construction)

Enact minor legislation

Dash careers of minor politicians

Get your candidate in a minor office

Enact encompassing legislature

Ignored and often spat on by their "betters," those in the dark alleys and slums have created their own culture to deal with life and any outsiders who might come calling. When calling on Street Influence, you use your connections on the underside of the city to find the homeless, gang members of all sorts, street buskers, petty criminals, prostitutes, residents of the slums or barrios, and fringe elements of so-called "deviant" cultures.

Cost

1

2

3

4

5

Effect

Open an ear for the word on the street

Identify most gangs and know their turfs and habits Live mostly without fear on the underside of society Keep a contact or two in most aspects of street life Access small-time contraband

Get insight into other areas of Influence

Arrange some services from street people or gangs Get pistols or uncommon melee weapons Mobilize groups of homeless

Panhandle or hold a "collection" ($250) Get hold of a shotgun, rifle or SMG

Have a word in almost all aspects of gang operations Control a single medium-sized gang Arrange impressive protests by street people Laws of the Night

102

TRANSPORTATION

Most Cainites make their havens in defensible parts of cities. Traveling across the wilderness is difficult, with the problems of daylight and marauding Lupines. Without this Influence, the vampiric world shrinks into islands of "civilization" with dangerous wastelands in between. Getting access to special supplies and services can also take a measure of Transportation. All these things can be controlled with a bit of sway over truckers, harbors, railroads, airports, taxis, border guards, pilots and untold hundreds, as well as more mundane aspects like shipping and travel arrangements.

Cost

1

2

3

4

5

UNDERWORLD

Effect

Know what goes where, when and why Travel locally quickly and freely

Track an unwary target if he uses public transportation Arrange passage safe (or at least concealed)

from mundane threats (robbery, terrorism, sunlight, etc.)

Seriously hamper an individual's ability to travel

Avoid most supernatural dangers when traveling (such as Lupines)

Shut down one form of transportation

(bus lines, ships, planes, trains, etc.) temporarily Route money your way ($500)

Reroute major modes of travel

Smuggle with impunity

The world of crime offers lucrative possibilities to strong-willed or subtle leaders. Guns, money, drugs and vice-such delicious pastimes can be led by anyone talented or simply vicious enough to take them. Underworld Influence lets you call on such favors for all manner of illegal dealings, and its ranks are filled by the Mafia, La Cosa Nostra, drug dealers, bookies, Yakuza, tongs, hitmen, fences and criminal gangs.

Cost

1

2

3

UNIVERSITY

Effect

Locate minor contraband (knives, small-time drugs, petty gambling, scalped tickets)

Obtain pistols, serious drugs, stolen cars

Hire muscle to rough someone up

Fence stolen loot

Prove that crime pays (and score $1,000)

Obtain a rifle, shotgun or SMG

Arrange a minor "hit"

Meet someone in "the Family"

Make white-collar crime connections

Arrange gangland assassinations Hire a demolition man or firebug Supply local drug needs

Institutions of learning and research are the purview of the University Influence. Access to the halls of learning can help you with any number of resources, from ancient languages to research assistance to many impressionable young minds. School boards, students from kindergarten through college, graduate students, professors, teachers, deans, Greek orders and a variety of staff fill the ivy-covered halls.

Cost 1

Effect

Know layout and policy of local schools

Have access to low-level university resources Get records up to the high school level

Character Creation and Trails

2

Know a contact or two with useful knowledge

or Abilities

Have minor access to facilities

3

4

Fake high school records

Obtain college records

Call in faculty favors

Cancel a class

Fix grades

Discredit a student

Organize student protests and rallies

5

ΜΕΝΤΟΒ

Discredit faculty members

Falsify an undergraduate degree

An older or more experienced Cainite looks after you and comes to your aid occasionally. Whatever the case, you can get assistance from your mentor, though his favor may be fickle.

When you call on your mentor, you risk a certain number of Traits to achieve a given effect. A lowly one-Trait mentor probably knows only little more than you, while a five-Trait mentor may well have luminous standing within your sect and a wide range of potent powers. Regardless, taking up your mentor's valuable time is costly. You must engage in a Simple Test when you call on your mentor. If you succeed, your mentor deigns to aid you. If you tie, your mentor grants you assistance, but then requires something in return. If you fail, your mentor demands the favor first before helping. In any case, your mentor can be called on only once in any given game session, and only if you have an appropriate way to contact him or her.

The level of aid that your mentor can give depends on the number of Traits in this Background (and Storyteller approval, of course):

For one Trait, your mentor is privy to a single piece of specialized information at a level above your own. If you have Cainite Lore x 2, for instance, your mentor can be called on to gift you with one piece of information from Cainite Lore x 3.

For two Traits, you can borrow one level of Contacts, Influence, Resources or Status from your mentor for the duration of the game. If your mentor is very powerful (four or five Traits), you can borrow two levels.

Two Traits allow your mentor to instruct you in a Basic Discipline that you do not know. For three Traits, your mentor can instruct you in an Intermediate Discipline that you do not know.

Also at a cost of three Traits, your mentor can train you in the ways of a special Hobby/ Professional/ Expert Ability that is outside your normal ken, such as Wraith Lore. For four Traits, your mentor can train you in an Advanced Discipline beyond your grasp. For five Traits, your mentor can train you in the phenomenal powers of the elders, if your blood is potent enough to learn such secrets.

Since Mentors can prove unbalancing by providing too many different powers over the course of a long game, the Storyteller may lower your total Mentor Traits as you call on his knowledge. This decrease represents the fact that as your character learns the mentor's secrets, the mentor has less left to teach.

RESOURCES

You have access to liquid capital and spending money. You also have some solid resources that you can use when times are tight. Unlike the use of Finance, these resources are always readily available, and they come to you automatically due to your investments, jobs and holdings.

Laws of the Night

104

No Traits: One Trait:

Two Traits:

Three Traits:

Four Traits:

Five Traits:

RESOURCE ALLOCATION

Poverty. Income $200. Get roommates. Bus pass. Small savings and holdings; income $500. Have apartment, cheap means of transportation.

Modest savings and holdings; income $1,000. Have condo and motorcycle or modest car.

Significant savings and holdings; income $3,000. Own house, car.

Large savings and holdings. Income $10,000. Own large house or some small properties, two vehicles, some luxuries and unusual items.

Rich. Income $30,000. Own estate and grounds, multiple small properties, several vehicles, arts and treasures, luxury items.

Your number of Resources Traits determines the amount of money and capital that you can secure. By expending temporary Resources Traits (which return at the next game session), you can draw on your regular income, as shown in the accompanying table. If you expend permanent Resources, you can divest yourself of holdings, allowing access to 10 times the amount shown on the table. However, the limits of what you can buy are always adjudicated by the Storyteller. Truly powerful uses of Resources are best left to downtimes and moderation between game sessions. RETAINERS

Whether out of personal loyalty, love, Conditioning, the blood bond or some other power, you have managed to secure the fellowship of a mertal (or several mortals) who obeys your every whim. Unlike the Allies Background, your retainers are nearly always around, overseeing your personal effects, defending your property and furthering your goals. They may not have the specialized knowledge of allies, but they are mostly loyal to your cause, and they serve your needs first.

You should work with your Storyteller to determine how you managed to secure a loyal retainer. Your retainer's exact capabilities are up to the Storyteller, a retainer may be skillful but unmotivated, or loyal but inept. No retainer is ever perfect, but they all can be a great help.

A retainer can be assigned to watch over a particular location. Generally, if someone attempts to break into your house, the retainers there will attempt to stop the intruder. In this case, they are treated as normal humans, run by Narrators.

A retainer can be used to manage your assets and perform tasks. Retainers tied up in this fashion allow you to manage more Influence than normal; they add to the number of Attribute Traits that you possess for purposes of counting your total Influences. Each retainer directed in this fashion adds one to your maximum Influence Traits. If retainers are later lost, killed or reassigned, the excess Influence Traits are lost, starting with the highest levels of Influence held.

• A retainer can perform other menial functions, as allowed by the Storyteller. You can get someone else to pick up your character's dry-cleaning.

You may choose to declare that any one of your retainers is a ghoul, if you so desire. However, for each ghoul that you have in your holdings, you begin each session's play one Blood Trait down from usual, as you must feed and maintain the servant. Ghouls have the usual benefits of Disciplines and an improved understanding of vampire society, so they make useful guards, but too many can be troublesome. Jealous ghouls (especially when many are blood bound to the same domitor) can cause no end of troubles.

For more about ghouls, see Liber des Goules.

Character Creation and Trails

105

BLOOD

Blood is the power that fuels all vampires. Unable to enjoy the pleasures of mortal flesh or the comfort of more mundane gratification, only blood offers sustenance to Cainites. Vampires must consume blood to survive, and it is with the life contained in blood that a vampire draws on the strengths of the undead condition.

Blood Traits do not have adjectives. Rather, each Trait simply represents a quantity of blood. In general, a vampire is assumed to have 10 pints of vitae in her system when full. Elder vampires, however, concentrate their blood more efficiently, and thus they have more than 10 Traits.

Blood Traits can be represented with cards. When a character gains Blood Traits by feeding, take the cards from the victim. When Blood Traits are spent, give the cards to a Narrator or Storyteller.

Your starting Blood Trait total is determined by your generation. When you come into play for an evening's game, make a test with a Narrator as you pick up your character sheet. If you win, you come into play with all of your Blood Traits, as determined by generation. If you tie, you have half your generational limit of Blood Traits, rounded up. If you lose, you come into play with only four Blood Traits. Certain Merits, Flaws, clan disadvantages or other circumstances may alter your number of Blood Traits at the beginning of play, and possession of the Herd Background allows you to come into play with more Blood Traits, up to your generation limit (see the appropriate Background descriptions on p. 96 for Generation and Herd).

When you have expended a great deal of blood, you become hungry. A hungry vampire is susceptible to the Beast and to frenzy due to the ravenous lust for vitae. You are considered hungry if at five or fewer Blood Traits; you may be susceptible to frenzy at the sight, smell or taste of blood (see Self-Control/ Instinct, on p. 109). If you have two or fewer Blood Traits, you are ravenous, and your difficulty to resist frenzy due to hunger goes up by one Trait, making it very likely that you enter frenzy at the first opportunity to feed.

Feeding is the only way to replenish blood. You can take Blood Traits from mortals, other vampires or other creatures with blood, such as animals or Lupines. When you bite someone to drain blood, you invoke the Kiss; your bite causes a rapturous helplessness in normal mortals, and it is pleasurable even to other creatures. However, each Blood Trait drained inflicts a level of lethal damage on the victim. Up to three Blood Traits may be drained each turn. You can close the wound by licking it to seal up traces of your feeding. You may only heal such wounds that were made by your fangs.

You can expend Blood Traits for a variety of functions:

• You must spend a Blood Trait each night at sunset, for simple sustenance. One Blood Trait can heal one health level of bashing or two levels of lethal damage. You are still limited to your generation limits of blood expenditure (so most young vampires cannot heal more than one health level of damage in a turn). Healing in this fashion requires your concentration and a full turn.

One Blood Trait can be spent to gain an extra Physical Trait for the duration of a conflict. You can bid this Trait like any other ("by the power of my blood,"), and you can count this Trait in ties and overbids. You can spend blood like this as a reflexive action at any time, not counting as your action, though of course you still obey the limits of blood expenditure according to generation. You can raise your Physical Traits up to the limit of your generation for one conflict; any additional Traits added with blood beyond that remain only for the duration of a single challenge.

Example: Romero de la Salle, Lasombra antitribu scourge, wants to augment his already- mighty Potence by increasing his Physical Traits over his usual 14. As he is of the Seventh Laws of the Night

Generation, he can normally have up to 16 Traits in a category. Shane marks off three Blood Traits; Romero goes up to 17 Traits for the tum, and even after the turn ends, he has 16 Traits for the rest of the conflict (assuming that he doesn't lose any challenges). Even if he loses some Physical Traits, he can spend more blood to bring his total back up to 16.

One Blood Trait-generally measured as a full pint- is sufficient to turn a mortal into a ghoul. This state lasts for a month; after that time, the ghoul must be fed more blood, lest he revert back to mortality.

One Blood Trait enables a vampire to take on a semblance of humanity for a scene. The vampire flushes and becomes capable of mimicking human activity (such blinking, sneezing or having cool skin rather than cold )Doing so is difficult for vampires with low Humanity; a vampire must spend an extra Blood Trait for each Trait that her Humanity is below five-a vampire with four Humanity Traits must spend two Blood Traits to appear mortal, a vampire with three Humanity Traits spends three Blood Traits to masquerade and so on. Vampires following Paths of Enlightenment cannot do this trick at all. You can take on a mortal visage while performing other tasks. If you must spend multiple Traits to perform this feat but your generation prohibits spending enough blood at once, you must spend the Blood Traits over successive turns. That is, a 13th-generation vampire with a Humanity of three Traits would have to spend three turns, spending one Blood Trait per turn, although he would still be able to perform other actions.

Three Blood Traits can be spent to heal one level of aggravated damage. This damage heals over the day, as the vampire sleeps. Blood Traits spent this way can be accumulated; that is, you need not spend the three Traits all at once, or even all in the same day. You should note Traits expended in this fashion with marks next to your level of aggravated damage; once you have spent three Blood Traits on the injury, it heals the next time the sun sets. You can only heal one level of aggravated damage per day in this fashion, though, unless you also spend a Willpower Trait for each extra wound healed in the same rest period.

Many Disciplines require the expenditure of Blood Traits, as listed in their individual descriptions. If a particular Discipline costs multiple Blood Traits but your generation prohibits you from spending all of the blood at once, you must spend the blood on successive turns. Spending blood in this fashion is usually reflexive, though the Discipline itself may require an action. For instance, activating Celerity is reflexive; you spend a Blood Trait and still get your normal action, plus extra actions from Celerity. Casting a Thaumaturgy effect, on the other hand, requires your full turn in addition to the blood expenditure.

You can acquire blood from any creature that has blood, including other supernatural creatures, but doing so can cause certain side effects. See pages 202-203 for information about the effects of drinking such "special" blood.

WILLPOWER

Willpower Traits measure the strength of your character's resolve and sense of self. By exerting your Willpower, you can withstand otherwise untenable conditions, renew your commitment to a course of action and empower certain difficult Disciplines.

Willpower Traits are not described with adjectives. You simply have permanent Willpower your normal limit of Willpower Traits—and temporary Willpower, your expendable Traits. Your starting permanent and temporary Willpower are determined by your generation; your generation also determines the maximum level to which you can improve your permanent Willpower. When you expend temporary Willpower Traits or raise your permanent Willpower, you regain temporary Traits at a rate of one per game session (though your Storyteller may vary this pace to suit the needs of her game or to simplify bookkeeping).

Character Creation and Trails

107

Expending a Willpower Trait allows for one of any number of effects. Generally, Willpower Traits allow you to keep self-determination and to empower extremely difficult or complex actions. Using Willpower is almost always a reflexive action, and does not count as your turn.

A Willpower Trait can be spent to refresh all of your lost Traits in one Attribute category-Physical, Social or Mental. You may do so once per category per game session.

•Expenditure of a Willpower Trait allows you to gain a retest when defending against a Mental or Social Challenge. Trait loss works as normal for such retests. Note that certain Disciplines or powers may override this stipulation--for instance, you can not use Willpower to see through Obfuscate.

Spending one Willpower Trait enables you to enter a challenge for which you lack an appropriate Ability. Thus, you can make a test even if you would normally require a specific Ability that you don't have or have used up.

•You can spend a Willpower Trait to try to control yourself briefly while in frenzy. You are able to act normally for one turn when you spend Willpower in this fashion, though you otherwise keep all the other stipulations of frenzy-ignoring wound penalties and so on. You do not actually regain control so much as you fight mightily to direct yourself for a few moments in the face of overwhelming rage or terror, roleplay your actions appropriately.

You can expend a Willpower Trait to ignore all wound penalties, up to and including Incapacitated, for the duration of one full turn.

Spending a Willpower Trait lets you suppress a derangement temporarily. If you spend enough Willpower Traits on suppressing a derangement, you may overcome it eventually. Malkavians cannot overcome their primary derangement this way. (See "Derangements" on p. 212-214.)

Certain Disciplines or powers require the expenditure of Willpower.

VIRTUE TRAITS

When pressed by overwhelming stresses or destructive forces, vampires may find themselves lost in the fury of their predatory instincts. The Beast in every vampire strives to survive, forcing you to hunt for blood, to kill others who threaten you and to flee the power of fire and sunlight.

You have three categories of Virtue Traits. Each type of Trait is used for a specific sort of Virtue Test. Conscience/ Conviction is used to hold to your moral path, even if you have a lapse of behavior. Self-Control/ Instinct allows you to deny or direct the terrible urges of your hungry and destructive Beast. Courage stands against the primal fear of the forces that can destroy you. Your Morality Path determines the sort of Virtues that you have; you cannot have both Conscience and Conviction or Self-Control and Instinct-you have only one from each category. Each Virtue Trait rating goes from zero to five Traits, though you do not use adjectives to describe the Traits. VIRTUE TESTS

When you suffer from an ethical dilemma, overpowering rage or incredible fear, you may use a Virtue Test to resist succumbing to the Beast. Such a test is a Static Challenge. The difficulty varies with the stimulus, as described for each sort of Virtue. Note that you are never required to make a Virtue Test; you may relent and automatically lose, if desired.

If you win a Virtue Test, your morals overcome the Beast and you hold fast against the predator. When you lose a Virtue Test, you suffer a lapse of virtue. You suffer from a debilitating Negative Trait or problem, as described under the appropriate Virtue. You may make one retest on a failed Virtue Test by risking an appropriate Virtue Trait; if you succeed in the retest, you only lose a Virtue Trait temporarily (for the Laser of the Night

rest of the session, making you more likely to succumb to further failings if you are not careful). If you lose the retest, you gain a temporary derangement related to your failure in addition to suffering the normal results of a Virtue Test loss. Note specifically that you may not overbid on a Virtue Test.

Regaining Virtue Traits requires the expenditure of Experience, as well as consistent roleplaying for the particular strength that you wish to cultivate. See the specific Virtue descriptions for examples of Virtue Tests. CONSCIENCE/CONVICTION

Conscience represents your tie to feelings of remorse and guilt. If you have a high Conscience, you suffer whenever you do something that you find morally wrong. As a result, your tie to your feelings keeps you from losing Morality Traits.

Conviction, on the other hand, is the strength to resolve yourself against future failings. If you suffer a lapse of Morality but have a high Conviction, you chastise yourself and steel yourself against ever making the same mistake. This strength of character also keeps you from losing Morality Traits.

A Virtue Test of Conscience/ Conviction is appropriate whenever you violate your Morality Path, as described on the Hierarchies of Sin. Whenever you commit a violation that is at or below your current Morality Trait total on the Hierarchy of Sin, you must make a Conscience/ Conviction Virtue Test. If you have only two Morality Traits, breaches of higher Morality are too trivial to cost you any further ground, but if you have four or five Morality Traits, you must be careful to uphold your ethics with every action. The difficulty of the challenge is the level of the sin on the Hierarchy table; if you commit a sin at level four on the Hierarchy of Sins table, you have a four-Trait difficulty to your Conscience/ Conviction challenge.

Losinga Conscience/Conviction Virtue Test causes you to immediately lose a Morality Trait. Example: Adian Gray, a rather cold Ventrue with a Humanity of three Traits, winds up killing a mortal in the course of his investigations. Outright murder is a two-Trait sin, so Adian's player makes a Conscience test with a difficulty of two Traits. If he wins or ties, Adian feels remorse for his actions and does not lose Humanity; if he loses, he suffers the loss of a Humanity Trait, dropping to two. Adian's player makes the test and wins - Adian realizes that he could have avoided killing the mortal and feels shame and remorse for the deed.

Later, Adian steals some documents while sneaking about the local police building. Since that is a four-Trait sin and he only has three Humanity Traits, it is too minor a crime to cause him further risk of Humanity. The player need not make a test of Conscience for that action.

SELF-CONTROL/INSTINCT

When you are overcome with murderous rage or hunger, you can use your Self-Control to stand against the Beast, to fortify your will and to keep control over yourself. When you would normally enter frenzy, you can make a Virtue Test of Self-Control (though you are not required to do so); the difficulty varies as shown on the accompanying table. If you succeed, you manage to push aside your feral urges for the time being. You then need not make any further Self-Control challenges against the same stimulus for the rest of that conflict.

Similarly, Instinct allows you to guide your frenzy, keeping some modicum of direction over your actions. If you have Instinct, you always enter frenzy, unless you have more Instinct than double the rating of the frenzy shown on the table, in which case, you may choose whether or not to enter frenzy. Once in frenzy, you can make an Instinct Virtue Test, if desired, to control your actions for one turn. If you win the test, you manage to direct your frenzy for the turn, though of course you still suffer all the usual conditions of frenzy-resistance to injury, inability to use your Mental or Social powers and so on. If you lose, your frenzy proceeds as normal; in the event

Character Creation and Trails

of a tie, compare your current Instinct Traits to the provocation rating to determine whether you manage to direct your frenzy.

You can never use more Self-Control/ Instinct Traits on Virtue Test resolution than your current number of Blood Traits. If you are hungry, it is hard to resist the call of frenzy. Note that you do not frenzy automatically if you run out of blood; however, you are very likely to frenzy if you are exposed to a stimulus, since you won't be able to use any Self-Control/ Instinct Traits in the event of a tie.

If you attempt to make a test of Self-Control/ Instinct and fail, you automatically gain the permanent Negative Social Trait: Callous or Condescending (your choice), though it can be bought off normally.

Example: Starved, stumbling down a side alley, Arithon catches sight of a mortal meal. Although he is out of blood, he does not frenzy immediately, since he is not yet agitated and has not scented blood. As he closes in, the punk belligerently turns to face him, and gives him a rude gesture. Now that he's been harassed, Arithon must make a Self-Control Virtue Test, with a difficulty of two Traits. Since he is out of blood, he effectively has no Self-Control; he tests against another player (since it's just a Static Challenge) and ties. With his lack of blood leaving him with no Self-Control Traits, Arithon enters a frenzy, attempting to drain the mortal. He also gains anew permanent Negative Trait. Realizing that he can't win on ties and that the mortal is unlikely to pose a problem, Arithon's player decides not to risk any further Traits on a retest.

Later, full of blood, Arithon is at a local club when he is accosted by an Assamite. The Assamite attacks him from surprise-a three-Trait provocation. Arithon's player makes a Static Challenge. If he wins, he manages to control himself, and does not frenzy as the Assamite attacks him. If he ties, his Self-Control of two Traits is insufficient to best the frenzy stimulus; if he loses, he frenzies automatically.

COURAGE

The eternal life promised by the curse of Caine can be ended by varied means, the most painful of which are probably fire and sunlight. The searing wounds inflicted by these banes galvanize Cainites to extremes of self-preservation. Few can remain calm in the face of this destruction.

Courage Traits measure self-possession and the ability to resist the terror inflicted by fire, sunlight and True Faith. You must make a Courage challenge when confronted with such attacks. If you succeed, you manage to resist the urge to flee for the duration of the conflict (or for 10 minutes). If you fail, though, you enter Rötschreck, a form of terrified frenzy in which you attempt to escape by any means possible. Losing a Courage Test also causes you to suffer from the Negative Physical Trait: Cowardly or the Negative Mental Trait: Submissive, permanently, although such Traits can be removed later with Experience.

Note that you generally do not need to make a Courage Virtue Test against fire under your control. If you are lighting your own cigarette, for instance, or using the Thaumaturgy path The Lure of Flames, you are in control of the fire and thus

SELF-CONTROL/INSTINCT DIFFICULTIES

Stimulus

Smell of blood when hungry

unaffected by fear of it. However, if someone uses fire against you as a weapon (a hunter threatening to touch a lighter to your hair, facing someone brandishing a torch), you may need to make a Courage Test.

Example: Due to some rather rash actions, the haven of Marcus the Brujah is engulfed in flames. Marcus, Cassandra and John Slime are all surprised by the fire that bursts up from the floor. The Storyteller calls for a Virtue Test of Courage with all the vampires present, to see who succumbs to Rötschreck. The Storyteller throws Scissors. Marcus' player throws Rock, and thus Marcus remains unaffected. John Slime and Cassandra's players both throw Paper, so they're in trouble. Both of the players risk a Courage Trait for a retest, and test against the Storyteller again. This time, Kurt wins, so John Slime manages to control himself, but he loses a Courage Trait for the evening -he's shaken by the experience and more likely to flee from later threats. Katherine, on the other hand, ties on her retest, but Cassandra only has two Courage Traits. She loses the test, gains a Negative Trait, gains a temporary derangement and goes into Rötschreck.

MORALITY TRAITS

As described previously, your Morality Path shows the particular code that you try to uphold. Your Morality Traits measure your distance from the Beast and your success in adhering to that moral code. Ranging from zero to five Traits, these Traits simply serve as an indicator of your ethical strength. You do not expend or use Morality Traits in any fashion. However, your total Morality Traits do affect your condition; a vampire close to being overtaken by the Beast is more likely to succumb to vampiric instincts like slumber during the day or the long torpor of ages.

Morality Traits are lost when you suffer a lapse in Conscience or Conviction. See the Morality tables on p. 75-79 for the Hierarchies of Sin, which determine what constitutes a moral violation for your beliefs. You can only gain Morality Traits through consistent adherence to your ethics, good roleplaying and the expenditure of Experience with your Storyteller's approval.

When sleeping during the day, your total Morality Traits determine how deeply you slumber. You can never bid more than triple your Morality Traits for any action during the day (so even a mighty elder is susceptible to mortals due to such sluggishness).

The length of time that you spend in torpor varies with the strength of your Morality. Normally, you spend six game sessions in torpor and out of play; lower this number by one session for each Morality Trait that you possess. Note that certain circumstances can rescue you from torpor prematurely: magical healing or imbibing a Trait of blood from a vampire three generations lower than you, for instance. This imposed length of time applies only if you are sent to torpor involuntarily - if you choose to take the long sleep, you can rise at any time that you desire.

If you have Humanity, you appear more like a normal mortal. Vampires with low Humanity Traits, or on alternate paths of morality, have trouble dealing with normal humans. Such monstrous creatures acquire pallid, corpselike visages and

Traits

Traits

One

Two

Sight of blood when hungry; harassed;

One

Two

life-threatening situation

Three

Physical provocation or attacks; taste of blood when hungry

Three

Four

Four

Loved one in danger; humiliated

Five

Outright humiliation; mortal insults

Five

Laves of the Night

110

COURAGE DIFFICULTIES

Stimulus

Being bullied; lighter, sunrise Torch; obscured sunlight

Bonfire; uncovered window during daylight

House fire; being burned

Trapped in a burning building; direct sunlight

Character Creation and Trails

sociopathic demeanors that repel humans subconsciously. For every Trait of Humanity below four, you suffer a one-Trait penalty in resolution of Social Challenges with mortals, except for intimidation. If you follow a Path, you suffer the full three-Trait penalty automatically. This penalty applies only in dealings with normal humans; your bestial countenance terrifies them and they sense your predatory nature, but other vampires and supernatural creatures are not so easily frightened.

If you ever run completely out of Morality Traits, your character falls to the Wassail, the final frenzy. Your character enters a totally uncontrolled state of berserk rage and instinctive survival. Such a character cannot be coaxed from frenzy, cannot control himself and is no longer suitable for play. Other Cainites generally put down such unfortunates very quickly.

DERANGEMENTS

Mental instability and insanity plague many vampires, who are gripped by their guilt, remorse and inability to deal with the changing world. Derangements represent specific mental problems that sometimes crop up in situations of stress.

Derangements are tools of advanced roleplaying, and they should only be taken with the consultation of the Storyteller. As a result, they are listed in the Storytelling section of this book, on pp. 212-214.

NEGATIVE TRAITS

As listed previously under Attributes, you can take Negative Traits to specify particular weaknesses inherent to your character. The listings of Negative Traits are included with the other Traits on pp. 80-85.

When someone guesses your Negative Trait successfully in a challenge, you are forced to risk an additional Trait to continue with the challenge. Thus, if you enter a Mental Challenge but your opponent successfully guesses one of your Negative Mental Traits, you must bid and risk an additional Trait to continue with the challenge. If you do not have any more Traits to risk, you automatically lose the challenge. MERITS AND FLAWS

As optional Traits to flesh out your character, Merits and Flaws allow you to specify particular advantages or disadvantages that are not covered by Attributes, Abilities or Backgrounds. All Merits and Flaws are organized into specific categories, according to their type. To purchase a Merit, you must expend Free Traits equal to the cost of the Merit; taking a Flaw, conversely, hinders you with a handicap of some sort, but it offers additional Free Traits. You can take up to seven Traits each of Merits and Flaws. Some elder characters may have more; certainly, very old vampires may develop potential capabilities and resources outstripping their younger childer, or they may succumb to more terrible illnesses of body and mind.

Normally, you must purchase Merits and Flaws during character creation. However, with an appropriate story, you may be able to buy a new Merit (with Experience equal to double its value) or overcome a Flaw (again, with Experience equal to double its value). PHYSICAL MERITS AND FLAWS

ACUTE SENSE (I TRAIT MERIT)

You have a particularly sharp sense (specify which one). In all tests with that sense, you are two Traits up on challenge-resolution. Combined with the Auspex power of Heightened Senses, this Merit can gift you with truly superhuman acuity. You may have multiple Acute Senses, but you may only take this Merit once for each sense. Lies of the Night

AMBIDEXTROUS (I TRAIT MERIT)

You have a high degree of coordination, and you can use both of your hands equally well. Normally, you suffer a two-Trait penalty for performing tasks with your "off" hand. With this Merit, you have no penalty for using either hand. Of course, if you use both hands, you still suffer the coordination penalty for both (see "Two-Weapon Combat" on p. 207).

CATLIKE BALANCE (I TRAIT MERIT)

You almost never slip, stumble, fall or even get dizzy. Your sense of balance is so well-developed that you can walk with ease even on a narrow ledge or wire. You are two Traits up on resolution of challenges where your balance is a deciding factor.

EAT FOOD (I TRAIT MERIT)

Perhaps you developed this capacity after your Embrace, or maybe you never lost the ability to eat food. Whatever the case, your atrophied organs can still stomach solids. You do not digest such food, however, and you gain no sustenance from it; you must regurgitate the food at a later time. Having this Merit can be invaluable in maintaining the Masquerade.

BLUSHOF HEALTH (2 TRAIT MERIT)

Unlike other vampires who become pallid and gaunt, you retain a flush of life to your skin. Your appearance is still healthy, and you only feel slightly cool. This Merit is a great boon in blending in with mortals, though you still suffer Negative Traits from low Humanity or Path ratings (as those are more a result of your innate monstrousness than your appearance).

ENCHANTING VOICE (2 TRAIT MERIT)

Your voice is naturally resonant and commanding. All uses of your voice grant you two Bonus Traits; you can seduce, intimidate and cajole with just a few well- chosen words. This gift is most effective in combination with Presence or Melpominee.

DAREDEVIL (3 TRAIT MERIT)

Not only do you take outrageous risks, you survive them. Whenever you take a risky (some would say foolhardy) course of action-one with a Static difficulty of at least eight Traits or a potentially harmful outcome-you get one Bonus Trait on the attempt. This bonus applies only to combats where you are outnumbered or sorely outclassed (Narrator's discretion).

EFFICIENT DIGESTION (3 TRAIT MERIT)

You manage to draw extra nourishment out of blood while feeding. You gain three Blood Traits for every two that you drain from a mortal (rounding fractions down). This efficiency applies only to mortal blood, and you cannot take more than your normal Blood Trait maximum.

HUGE SIZE (4 TRAIT MERIT)

Nearly seven feet tall and hundreds of pounds in weight, you tower over most adversaries (and allies). You have one extra Bruised health level. You should represent your incredible mass appropriately-wearing bulky clothing is a good start.

HARD OF HEARING (I TRAIT FLAW)

You have some difficulty hearing. You suffer a two-Trait penalty on all tests of hearing. Obviously, you cannot have this Flaw and the Merit: Acute Sense: Hearing.

SHORT (I TRAIT FLAW)

You have trouble seeing over things, interacting with tall people and escaping notice due to your proportions. You can only take two steps in an action instead of three, due to your small size. You also have trouble reaching countertops and manipulating objects designed for normal people (like cars). You should wear a tag to note your condition if you are not actually that short.

Character Creation and Trails

SMELLOFTHE GRAVE (I TRAIT FLAW)

You exude the unconcealable stench of wet earth, which puts you one Trait down on social interactions with mortals automatically. Your loamy scent is quite distinctive to those familiar with you.

BAD SIGHT (ITO 3 TRAIT FLAW)

Defective sight causes you no end of trouble. Any time you are called on to perform a challenge that involves careful eyesight, you suffer a two-Trait penalty. If your vision problem is correctable with glasses or contact lenses, it is only worth one Trait; if it is uncorrectable, it is worth three Traits. Obviously, you cannot have the Merit: Acute Vision: Sight with this Flaw.

FOURTEENTH GENERATION (2 TRAIT FLAW)

Embraced in the modern age, your blood is thin beyond even that of most Caitiff. You are no more than five years as a vampire, created by one of the 13th generation. You have 10 Blood Traits, but you can only use eight of them; the other two are inert, treated like mortal blood. You must take the Flaw: Thin Blood (although you do get Free Traits for it), and you are most likely Caitiff, for your blood is too weak to pass the distinguishing characteristics of clan, You may not take the Backgrounds of Generation with this Flaw.

DISFIGURED (2 TRAIT FLAW)

A hideous disfigurement afflicts you, twisting your countenance in a memo- rable fashion. You cannot take any Appearance-related Social Traits. Furthermore, you suffer a two-Trait penalty on all Social Challenges except intimidation.

ONE EYE (2 TRAIT FLAW)

Whether by injury or defect, you are missing an eye or one of your eyes does not function. You are two Traits down on tests of depth perception, including ranged combat. Depending on the nature of your eye damage, you may choose to wear an eyepatch, or you may simply have one blind eye.

ADDICTION (3 TRAIT FLAW)

Some chemical or biological substance hooked you, and now you crave it in the blood. You try to feed from people whose blood will satiate your cravings. This substance generally has negative effects on you-alcohol or depressants may give you the Negative Trait: Lethargic for the rest of the evening after feeding, or amphetamines may cause you to suffer from the Negative Trait Impatient. You can only draw nourishment from blood with your "fix" in it; you vomit up any other blood.

CHILD (3 TRAIT FLAW)

You were embraced as a child, between five and 10 years of age. Your age causes some decided problems: you cannot have more than six Physical Traits normally, and you suffer a two-Trait penalty on tests of authority with adults. Since you never age or grow up, this Flaw will probably be with you forever. You must additionally take the Flaw: Short (though you do get Free Traits for it).

DEFORMITY (3 TRAIT FLAW)

A physical deformity of some sort not only mars your appearance, but it makes physical activity difficult for you. You have a one-Trait penalty on challenge resolution for Physical tests, and two for Social tests. You should work with the Storyteller to define the nature of your deformity, (be it a hunchback, club foot, withered limb etc.).

INFECTIONS BITE (3 TRAIT FLAW)

Due to enzymes, a disease or just some unknown mystical factor, you cannot heal your bite simply by licking the wound. In fact, mortals can be infected with a serious disease if you feed on them-if you fail a Simple Test after leaving a mortal alive but bitten, the mortal contracts a serious disease (see Laws of the Hunt for information about mortals and infection).

Laws of the Night

LAME (3 TRAIT FLAW)

More than simply suffering from a twitchy limb like the Lame Negative Physical Trait, you have severe damage to your legs. You can only take one step per action, you cannot run and you should take the Negative Trait Lame as well. You should roleplay this Flaw with a cane or a set of leg braces.

MONSTROUS (3 TRAIT FLAW)

Something about you became wholly monstrous when you were Embraced. Your outward form twists to reflect your inner Beast. You cannot initiate Social Challenges, except ones concerning intimidation, when your true form is apparent, and you may not take Appearance-related Traits, such as Alluring or Gorgeous. Nosferatu and Samedi may not take this Flaw.

PERMANENT WOUND (3 TRAIT FLAW)

Before your Embrace, you suffered some sort of wound which your transforma- tion failed to repair. As a result, you rise each night with the same affliction. You wake up each evening at your first Wounded health level with lethal damage, although this damage may be healed normally.

SLOW HEALING (3 TRAIT FLAW)

Your blood is not very efficient in healing your wounds, or maybe you just never really learned to direct your vitae for regeneration. Repairing one level of damage costs you two Blood Traits, and you can only restore one aggravated level of damage per week (though you can bank your blood for healing, as described under "Blood Traits", p. 106).

DEAF (4 TRAIT FLAW)

You are completely deaf. You must use sign language or some other form of communication. You cannot hear Dominate commands, and so you are usually immune to them (unless they are implanted telepathically or otherwise without voice), but you suffer a three-Trait penalty on tests of perception and alertness. You cannot have Acute Sense: Hearing, and you are surprised automatically by anyone who approaches you from outside your line of sight. DISEASE CARRIER (4 TRAIT FLAW)

You suffer from a fatal disease, and you spread it readily to anyone who drinks your blood. Though it has little effect on Cainites, it does require you to spend an extra Blood Trait when awakening in the evening if you wish to avoid suffering its debilitating symptoms. Furthermore, other vampires who feed on you must make two Simple Tests-if both tests are lost, the vampire contracts your disease as well.

MUTE (4 TRAIT FLAW)

You cannot speak at all. To communicate, you may need to sign or write out your thoughts. You can explain actions to a Storyteller, but that is the limit of your speaking. Without Linguistics, you may not even be able to sign. This Flaw can be difficult to roleplay, so choose carefully.,

THIN BLOOD (4 TRAIT FLAW)

The curse of Caine is weak in your vitae. As a result, your blood sustains you only poorly. All costs for Blood Traits are doubled, and may require you to spend multiple turns when powering Disciplines or healing. You cannot create a blood bond, and you can only Embrace someone if you win (not tie) a Simple Test-otherwise, the victim simply dies.

FLESH OF THE CORPSE (5 TRAIT FLAW)

When you suffer injury, your flesh knits with terrible scars and puckering seams. Every time you take a wound, you suffer from the Negative Trait Repugnant, and it persists even after you heal the injury. After a day's sleep, your skin finally restores itself, but the marks are still a difficulty when dealing with the Masquerade before you have slept.

Character Creation and Trail

115

BLIND (6 TRAIT FLAW)

The world of sight is lost to you. You automatically lose all ties where sight would be a factor (tests of manual dexterity, for instance). You fail any challenge requiring sight automatically. You cannot be affected by Dominate because you cannot see the opponent's gaze, but that is about the limit of the benefits. If you have this Flaw, you should wear a special tag or glasses to indicate its nature. Interestingly, you can still use the Auspex Discipline power of Aura Perception, though you perceive the aura through other senses (smell, sound, etc.). MENTAL MERITS AND FLAWS

COMMON SENSE (I TRAIT MERIT)

You still have a lot of gut insight and everyday practicality. Whenever you're about to do something that runs counter to common sense, the Storyteller or Narrator can make suggestions about the action. This Merit is excellent for new players who are not familiar with the intricacies of the game.

CONCENTRATION (I TRAIT MERIT)

You can shut out distractions and annoyances that would hinder others. Whenever penalty Traits are assigned for some outside phenomenon (harsh light- ing, rain, loud noise, etc.), you suffer none of the penalty.

TIME SENSE (I TRAIT MERIT)

You can estimate time accurately to the nearest one or two minutes without the use of a watch or clock. This Merit is obviously very useful in getting back to safety before sunrise.

CODE OF HONOR (2 TRAIT MERIT)

A specific code of behavior and ethics, separate from your Path of Enlightenment, guides your actions. This code is very personal, shaped by your own experiences. You should work with your Storyteller to build an appropriate code (which should include some hindrances and prohibited activity in addition to beliefs and passions). You gain one free retest whenever facing a Mental or Social situation that might cause you to violate your code, be it supernatural persuasion or possible frenzy.

EIDETIC MEMORY (2 TRAIT MERIT)

Your memory is nearly perfect, and you recall almost everything you experience with incredible clarity. A single turn of attention is sufficient to commit a page, picture or short conversation to memory. If you are involved in combat or otherwise distracted, you must make a Static Mental Challenge, difficulty of six Traits, to successfully memorize the contents of your subject of scrutiny. You should keep a "cheat sheet" of your memories to aid you and the Storyteller in "recollection."

LIGHT SLEEPER (2 TRAIT MERIT)

While most vampires sleep soundly during the day, you are still sensitive to your surroundings. You wake easily and instantly at any sign of disturbance. You also suffer no limit to your Traits due to sleepiness during the day, regardless of your Morality Trait total.

NATURAL LINGUIST (2 TRAIT MERIT)

You have a remarkable grasp with any languages that you speak or write (as per your Linguistics Ability). You gain three Bonus Traits on all challenges related to language.

CALM HEART 3 TRAIT MERIT)

Though the Beast moves in you, it is more subdued than in other vampires. You control your passions better than most, or you are just naturally more temperate. You are one Trait up on resolution of Self-Control/ Instinct and Courage Virtue Tests. Brujah may not take this Marit

Laws of the Night

110

IRON WILL (3 TRAIT MERIT)

When your mind is set, your will is not broken easily. If you are affected with the Dominate Discipline, you may expend a Willpower Trait to retest the effect. If you win, the effect is negated and you receive a five-minute immunity to further Dominate. If mind-altering magic or Thaumaturgy with a Mental Challenge affects you, you get three Bonus Traits in defense. Note that this Merit does not defend against Presence or other social manipulations.

DEEP SLEEPER (I TRAIT FLAW)

You are even more sluggish than the normal vampire during the day. You have great difficulty awakening, even at signs of danger. During the day, waking up is a Static Mental Challenge versus 10 Traits.

NIGHTMARES (I TRAIT FLAW)

Hideous nightmares (daymares?) flit through your mind whenever you slumber. At a Narrator's discretion, you may suffer nightmares so bad that you are unable to sleep restfully, causing you to lose one Trait on all challenges for the evening. A crafty Storyteller is usually quick to take advantage of this Flaw.

PREY EXCLUSION (I TRAIT FLAW)

For some reason, you refuse to hunt a certain class of prey, such as children, clergy or police. If you accidentally feed on your excluded subject, you immediately enter frenzy and must make a four-Trait Conscience/ Conviction Challenge or lose a Morality Trait. Furthermore, if you witness someone else feeding on your excluded type, you must make a Self-Control/ Instinct Virtue Test as if provoked. Ventrue cannot take this Flaw, due to their more restrictive clan diet.

SHY (I TRAIT FLAW)

Unlike the Negative Trait Shy, which indicates difficulty dealing with other individuals, you have a specific problem with large groups of people. You take a two- Trait penalty on all Social Challenges with three or more people, three Traits for groups of 10 or more.

SOFT HEARTED (I TRAIT FLAW)

You cannot abide suffering, because of the emotional disturbance or pain that it causes you. You must avoid causing pain or suffering to anyone; only by spending a Willpower Trait can you overcome this limitation for a scene (one hour). You must have at least four Morality Traits of Humanity to take this Flaw.

SPEECH IMPEDIMENT (I TRAIT FLAW)

A stammer, Tourette's Syndrome or other speech deficiency makes communica- tion difficult for you. Roleplay your deficiency, and suffer a two-Trait penalty on all verbal communication. You cannot have this Flaw with the Merit: Enchanting Voice.

AMNESIA (2 TRAIT FLAW)

The past is a blank slate. You know nothing of your history, family, friends or foes. Your Storyteller makes up your character's history, including the reasons for your Amnesia. The Storyteller may even keep your character record partially hidden, only revealing your Abilities, Disciplines, Merits and Flaws when you try to use them. In general, the only things obvious to you are the things you can see in the mirror.

LUNACY (2 TRAIT FLAW)

The cycles of the moon shift your moods, making you unpredictable and wild. Under a crescent, half or gibbous moon, you suffer a one-Trait penalty to all Self- Control/ Instinct Virtue Tests; under a full moon, this penalty increases to two Traits.

PHOBIA (2 TRAIT FLAW)

Some object, creature or circumstance fills you with dread. This fear goes far beyond the normal level of phobias: Your vampiric Beast instinctively flees the

Character Creation and Trails

thing, treating it as a dire threat. When confronted by the object of your fear, you must make a Courage Virtue Test with a difficulty of at least three Traits (more if the Narrator decides that the circumstances are particularly severe). Should you fail, you suffer the usual penalties of failed Courage and R^tschreck.

SHORT FUSE (2 TRAIT FLAW)

Even for a vampire, your temper is ferocious. You suffer a one-Trait penalty on all Virtue Tests of Self-Control/ Instinct. Brujah cannot take this Flaw.

TERRITORIAL (2 TRAIT FLAW)

You stake out a particular area and claim it as your hunting grounds. You do not tolerate trespassers, especially other predators (vampires and Lupines). If you catch another vampire entering your turf uninvited, you must make a Self-Control/ Instinct Virtue Test as if provoked, or fly into a frenzy and attack. You generally dislike leaving your home for extended periods; roleplay this reticence.

VENGEFUL (2 TRAIT FLAW)

You want to even a score, either from your mortal days or with some group or individual thereafter. You plan ways to get your revenge constantly, and if presented with an opportunity for vengeance, you must spend a Willpower Trait to take some other action for the scene.

WEAK-WILLED (3 TRAIT FLAW)

Mind-altering powers like Dominate or even simple threats can break you easily. You get no test against the Dominate Discipline (although you are still immune to uses of Dominate from Cainites of weaker generation). You also suffer a two-Trait penalty on all Mental and Social Challenges. You cannot exceed a total of three Willpower Traits, regardless of your generation, unless you overcome this Flaw.

CONSPICUOUS CONSUMPTION (4 TRAIT FLAW)

The organs and blood-bearing tissue of your victims are staples of your diet. You believe that you must consume the liver, kidneys, heart and other pieces in order to sustain yourself. You must purchase the Eat Food Merit so that you can devour the meaty bits. You can only absorb Blood Traits by eating these organs; blood drunk from other sources is vomited back up. This hunger will necessitate the deaths of your victims, and it could lead to interesting problems with the Masquerade and maintaining Morality. SOCIAL MERITS AND FLAWS

NATURAL LEADER (I TRAIT MERIT)

Natural magnetism and leadership capabilities spring from your actions and words. Others want to follow you, and you easily take charge. You gain two Bonus Traits on tests of leadership (including most Presence tests). You must have at least six Social Traits to take this Merit.

PRESTIGIOUS SIRE (I TRAIT MERIT)

Your sire is well-known in Cainite society, and he is held in some esteem. You gain a small measure of prestige due to your sire's fame, even if you no longer have any contact with her. Many other vampires treat you with at least a modicum of respect, as they fear or revere your sire. You are generally treated as if you possess one Status Trait more than you really have, although this Trait is not actually used- it shows that people accord you slightly greater standing.

DEBT OF GRATITUDE (ITO 3 TRAIT MEBIT)

An elder owes you prestation due to a favor performed by you or your sire. In keeping with the strictures of Cainite society, there is no easy way for the vampire to get out of this debt without repaying you. One Trait indicates a minor boon; two

Laws of the Night

118\)

Traits indicate a major boon; three Traits indicate a blood boon. Work with your Storyteller to create the circumstances of the debt.

ENEMY (ITO 5 TRAIT FLAW)

A particular enemy is out to ruin you, or worse, to kill you. You may even have a group of powerful enemies hounding your steps. The value of this Flaw depends on the power of the enemy: A single vampire of power similar to your own is worth one Trait, while a cabal of mages or an entire organization of hunters would be worth five Traits. The Storyteller will ensure that your enemy figures into plots. He may not appear every game, but his machinations will be there.

DARK SECRET (I TRAIT FLAW)

You have some sort of secret that, if exposed, would cause you great embarrass- ment or hardship. The Storyteller will work to make sure that your secret could be exposed in the course of play. If the secret gets out, you may either buy off the Flaw immediately by taking a Negative Trait (Untrustworthy is a good one), or by the loss of a Status Trait, depending on the circumstances.

INFAMOUS SIRE (I TRAIT FLAW)

Your sire is well-known and well-hated among vampires of your sect. You are treated as if you have one less Status Trait than you actually possess. This penalty does not affect your true amount of Status; it simply means that others treat you with scom for your lineage.

MISTAKEN IDENTITY (I TRAIT FLAW)

Another Cainite happens to bear a striking resemblance to you. Worse, others in your area have heard descriptions of this person or even met your lookalike, causing no end of confusion. You should wear a tag that indicates your Mistaken Identity. This Flaw can be especially problematic if your look-alike is particularly powerful or notorious in Cainite society.

SIRE'S RESENTMENT (I TRAIT FLAW)

For whatever reason, your sire has decided that your Embrace was a mistake, and she wishes you ill. You are unlikely to have a Mentor or any allies of note among Cainites, and your sire will attempt to hinder your plans at any opportunity.

HUNTED (4 TRAIT FLAW)

A powerful and dangerous mortal hunter has decided you are a danger to the world, and he seeks to snuff out your existence. The mortal has the contacts and skills necessary to make your unlife dangerous and unpleasant (and very short, if you aren't careful). Your friends, allies and other associates may all be at risk if the hunter decides to turn his eye on them.

PROBATIONARY SECT MEMBER (4 TRAIT FLAW)

You turned your back on your former organization, and now you stand with another. You may be a Camarilla turncoat, a Sabbat refugee or an independent who joined with one of the greater sects. As long as you have this Flaw, you are suspect within your new organization. You can have Status normally, but elders are likely to cast a suspicious eye over you regardless of your actual standing (treating you as if you had only one Status Trait). Even those with whom you associate may be judged tainted. SUPERNATURAL MERITS AND FLAWS

MAGIC RESISTANCE (2 TRAIT MERIT)

The magical forms and rituals of Thaumaturgy and other magic seem to have difficulty affecting you. You gain two Bonus Traits when testing against any form of magic, though this bonus applies to both benevolent and harmful effects. You can never learn Thaumaturgy if you have this Merit.

Character Creation and Trails

MEDIUM (2 TRAIT MERIT)

The voices of the dead sometimes come across the Shroud to haunt you. Ghosts flock to give you messages for the living world, and you can sense their presence in a room without using any special powers. Although you cannot normally see wraiths, you can always hear them, and you can communicate with them for favors or information. Of course, the Restless Dead always want something in return.

LUCKY (3 TRAIT MERIT)

You were born lucky-or the Devil looks after his own. Either way, you get three retests per story (for which you bid a Lucky Trait: "I got Lucky-you missed me last time."), though you may not use more than one retest on any challenge.

ORACULAR ABILITY (3 TRAIT MERIT)

The signs and portents of everyday life are clear to you, offering up the course of the future. Once per session, you may attempt to read a particular omen by making a Static Mental Challenge with a difficulty of eight or more Traits (Narrator's discretion). If you succeed, you receive some insight into the current situation, allowing you to claim one retest at some point during the night as you draw on the visions that you interpreted.

SPIRIT MENTOR (3 TRAIT MERIT)

A ghostly companion and guide follows you about, exercising its powers on your behalf. Maybe it's a deceased lover or friend, or maybe it's just curious about you. Its exact powers are up to the Storyteller (it's recommended that you build a basic wraith with the Oblivion rulebook to represent this character). If it really exerts itself, it can sometimes affect the material world. More often, it provides advice and company.

UNBONDABLE (3 TRAIT MERIT)

The blood bond cannot take hold on you. No matter how much blood you drink, you will never be bound, even partially.

TRUE LOVE (4 TRAIT MERIT)

You have found (and perhaps lost) a True Love, a piece of comfort and companionship in an otherwise despairing world. When confronted by adversity, the thought of your True Love provides strength and peace of mind. You effectively gain one extra Willpower Trait each session, spent as a True Love Trait. (These Traits are not cumulative; you cannot save them up.) However, your True Love may require rescuing or assistance from time to time.

NINE LIVES (6 TRAIT MERIT)

You have nine chances to cheat death. Your Storyteller should keep a tally of your lives (you can also mark them on your character sheet). Any time that a lost challenge would result in your death, you get a retest. You can keep retesting, even on the same challenge, until you survive or until you use up all of your Nine Lives.

TRUE FAITH (7 TRAIT MERIT)

The light of God, Allah, Buddha or whatever name you use for the Almighty shines from your soul. You have one Trait of True Faith, which can be used in a variety of ways. You can use your Faith Trait as a Willpower Trait. You can also repel other vampires with a Social Challenge, saying, "In the name of "and brandishing a holy symbol. If you win the Social Challenge, the other vampire flees, and even if you lose, the opponent cannot approach closer than 10 feet of you unless he overbids you in a test of Willpower against Willpower. You must maintain a Morality of five Humanity Traits to keep this Merit. This Merit is exceedingly rare among the Damned, and the Storyteller will demand a very good explanation from you. See Laws of the Hunt for more ideas about True Faith.

CURSED (ITO 5 TRAIT FLAW)

A powerful curse-other than vampirism-afflicts you. The number of Traits in this Flaw determines the power and tenacity of the curse. A one-Trait curse might

Laws of the Night

120

cause you to stumble whenever you cross a doorstep; a three-Trait curse could cause any weapon you use to break after one strike; a five-Trait curse may result in all your best efforts being eventually turned against you. The exact particulars of the curse, as well as any way to overcome it, are up to the Storyteller.

CAST NO REFLECTION (I TRAIT FLAW)

Like the Lasombra, you cast no reflection in mirrors or silvered surfaces. Obviously, this Flaw constitutes a breach of the Masquerade, and it can draw a great deal of attention in certain circumstances. Lasombra cannot take this Flaw for free Traits.

REPULSED BY GARLIC (I TRAIT FLAW)

Even the smallest whiff of garlic is sufficient to send you from the room. When you are confronted with a bit of garlic, you must expend a Willpower Trait or else be forced at least 10 feet away. If you spend the Willpower, you are able to abide the stench for one scene.

TOUCH OF FROST (I TRAIT FLAW)

Your chilling caress pulls away heat and kills plants. This Flaw is mostly an eerie effect, though you should certainly mention your ice-cold touch to anyone who has physical contact with you.

EERIE PRESENCE (2 TRAIT FLAW)

You radiate an otherworldly air that causes nervousness and unease in everyone around you. You suffer a two-Trait penalty in all Social Challenges with mortals. Furthermore, your unusual nature is apparent to anyone who interacts with you; you should wear a tag or armband to indicate your Eerie Presence.

CAN'T CROSS RUNNING WATER (3 TRAIT FLAW)

As per the old folk tales, you believe that you cannot cross running water, and indeed, something prevents you from doing so. You must be at least 50 feet above a body of water to cross it. Running water is considered to be any body of water at least two feet wide in any direction and not completely stagnant and enclosed (thus, sewer lines under the street don't count).

HAUNTED (3 TRAIT FLAW)

A malicious ghost, possibly of one of your victims, has decided to torment you from beyond the grave. Though it usually limits itself to phantasmal moaning, eerie manifestations and the occasional push, it does its best to make your unlife difficult. The Storyteller should make up the spirit, and possibly assign a Narrator to follow you and make sure that you pay for the Flaw. (Use of Oblivion is highly recommended.)

REPELLED BY CROSSES (3 TRAIT FLAW)

You may have some residual religious guilt, or perhaps you take vampire legends too seriously. Whatever the reason, the sight of the cross causes you to flee unless you expend a Willpower Trait (in which case you can resist it for the rest of the scene). If you are struck by a cross on your bare skin, you take one level of aggravated damage for each blow, and you cannot reduce this damage with Fortitude. (This Flaw pertains to the actual religious symbol, not two crossed popsicle sticks or whatever else.)

GRIP OF THE DAMNED (4 TRAIT FLAW)

There is no ecstasy in your Embrace-only terror and pain. When you bite to feed, you do not cause the Kiss, so your victims scream and struggle. This Flaw necessitates some method of restraining your prey. The torture that you inflict on your victims can be considered a form of suffering, and it may be inimical to vampires with high Humanity Traits.

DARK FATE (5 TRAIT FLAW)

Some horrible end awaits you, and you cannot avert it. Worse still, you have glimpses or some foreknowledge of your demise or eternal torment. The Storyteller will determine a particular fate, which will invariably strike you, removing your

Character Creation and Trails

character from play. Furthermore, in any particular session where the Storyteller deems appropriate, you may receive a vision of your impending misery. You must spend a Willpower Trait to shake off the experience, or you are a Trait down on all challenges for the rest of the session. This Flaw can be difficult to roleplay, and players are advised to think carefully before choosing it. Some may believe that this Flaw removes free will, but foreknowledge of one's demise can be quite liberating.

LIGHT SENSITIVE (5 TRAIT FLAW)

You are even more vulnerable to light than most vampires. Sunlight inflicts double damage, and even moonlight hurts-direct moonlight causes one level of lethal damage per turn. You must use sunglasses to shield your eyes, and you tend to stick to dark places out of habit and safety.

EXPERIENCE

As sentient beings, we collate the information that is presented to us in our daily lives and hopefully become better people for our experiences. During our life, we learn from the mistakes of yesterday and prepare for the challenges of tomorrow.

Experience in Laws of the Night is represented by giving each character one to three Experience Traits at the end of each session. The number of Traits awarded is based on how well a character performed during the course of the story and how active a player was in the game. The Narrator decides how many Traits each player receives on completion of the session. All players receive one Trait - this is standard. Exceptional roleplayers, those who played an exceptionally memorable part, should receive two. Three Traits should be awarded to those characters who performed acts of incredible insight and courage, making the game truly memorable for everyone involved. On a normal night, each player will receive one Experience Trait.

If you are a Narrator, you should be consistent and fair in awarding Experience. Do it in the open, and be prepared to explain the rationale for your decisions in accordance with the rules. If the players disagree, hear them out and make sure you know the whole story, then award Experience to those who have earned it.

Be careful, as awarding too many Experience Traits can make characters too powerful too quickly and give players lax attitudes toward working for their goals. On the other hand, awarding too few disheartens the players and damages their sense of achievement.

Awarding Experience Traits, therefore, requires a delicate balance between satisfying players and maintaining the integrity of the game. If you follow the guidelines listed here, you probably won't get into too much trouble.

• Automatic Each character receives one Experience Trait per game, representing the acquisition of common, everyday knowledge.

⚫ Roleplaying- Narrators should encourage roleplaying. The best way to do so is to reward it tangibly with Experience.

Leadership - You should award one Trait to each of those few players who had starring parts in a story. Someone who got involved, and by her efforts propelled the plot, deserves a third Trait. It should be noted that if more than one of the players were integral to the progression of the story, each of the players who showed such leadership should be awarded a Trait.

USING EXPERIENCE

Experience Traits may be spent to purchase new Abilities, Traits and Disci- plines, improving a character and giving the player a sense of satisfaction as he watches his character grow more potent. The on p.124 chart lists the costs for improving Traits, Abilities and Disciplines.

Laws of the Night

122

CONVERTING CHARACTERS FROM PREVIOUS EDITIONS

Players of the previous version of Laws of the Night can easily convert characters built on those rules to the updated rules of the Final Nights. Simply follow the character creation outline, using the conversions listed here. CONVERTING CONCEPT, CLAN,

MORALITY, NATURE AND DEMEANOR

Your character's concept probably remains unchanged as a result of the rules- your background story is not affected by the vagaries of Traits.

Similarly, clans remain largely unchanged. The Gangrel may have left the Camarilla en masse, but individuals still choose their own allegiances. Some bloodlines have changed their Disciplines-most notably, the Samedi now have Fortitude instead of Necromancy. Samedi characters should simply be charged extra Experience for their levels of Necromancy, appropriate to the difference in cost; they can then purchase Fortitude as desired. Older characters are considered to be "typical" of their clans, and thus, they may not swap out to become one of a bloodline. Malkavians can swap their Dominate for Dementation, as explained under the Dementation Discipline on p. 145.

Acharacter's Morality isstill the same Humanityor Path of Enlightenment, but Beast/Path Traits are no longer used. Instead, the character has five Morality Traits, minusone Trait foreach Beast/Path Trait. Thus, a character with two Beast Traits now has a Humanity of three Traits. Natures and Demeanors follow the Archetypes listed here, though there is certainly nothing to prevent the use of previously published Archetypes. UPDATING CLAN

Note specifically that the clan advantages and disadvantages for this edition of Laws of the Night differ from the predecessors, which may grant certain characters extra Traits or penalties.

CONVERTING ATTRIBUTES

For the most part, Attributes remain unchanged. The number of Traits possessed by a character stays the same, and most of the adjectives are the same, too. The sole exception is the Physical Trait Athletic, which was replaced with Agile to prevent confusion with the Athletics Ability. The Calm Mental Trait was removed, as that is a function of Self-Control; substitute Patient, Disciplined or Determined instead. CONVERTING ADVANTAGES

CHANGING ABILITIES

Abilities remain largely unchanged converted characters may choose specializations, as described for Abilities. Certain highly particular Abilities can be converted to Hobby/ Professional/ Expert Abilities at the discretion of the Storyteller: Demolitions or Cainite Lore, for instance.

CHANGING DISCIPLINES

Disciplines are perhaps the most difficult area to convert. Since many Disci- plines now have different levels or additional levels, it can be hard to see exactly how a character can come across to the new system.

Characters keep their existing levels of Disciplines, if there are any correspon- dences. Thus, a character with Intermediate Presence still has the powers of Dread Gaze, Entrancement and Summon, though using the new rules. Under this conversion system, the character must buy any missed levels of Disciplines before improving to higher levels of the Discipline. Therefore, the aforementioned character would have to buy Awe before learning Majesty. Charge the difference in Traits for missed levels-even though

Character Creation and Trails

123

New Attribute Trait - One Experience per Attribute Trait.

New Ability Trait-One Experience per Ability Trait up to 5. Two Experience per Ability Trait 6-10 (as you learn more, it becomes harder to find things you don't know). New Background Trait One Experience per Trait with Storyteller approval. Backgrounds may also rise or fall based on roleplaying.

• New Discipline Three Experience Traits for Basic Disciplines, six for Intermediate Disciplines and nine for Advanced Disciplines. Remember to add one Trait to the cost if the Discipline is considered "out of clan" for a character.

•New Humanity/Path Trait-Two Experience per Trait (and Storyteller approval). New Merit-Double the listed cost of the Merit, with Narrator approval. This acquisition should not happen instantaneously; it should be worked into a character's ongoing story. The addition of a Merit should not be treated lightly.

• New Necromancy or Thaumaturgy Ritual - Two Experience for a Basic ritual, four for an Intermediate ritual and six for an Advanced ritual.

New Specialization -One Experience Trait in an Ability already known.

• New Virtue Three Experience per Trait, plus the change must be an important part of a character's ongoing story-line somehow.

New Willpower - Three Experience per Trait.

Buy off Negative Trait - Two Experience per Trait.

Buy off Flaw Double the cost of the Flaw, with Storyteller approval, and worked into the character's ongoing story.

Awe is a Basic power, the previous character spent Traits for two Basic and one Intermediate Discipline levels, and thus would have to spend the Traits for another Intermediate power (to gain the otherwise Basic Awe) before moving on to Majesty.

For powers without an easily convertible correspondence like Animalism, a Storyteller may choose to award the character the equivalent levels. A character with the Intermediate level of Animalism (Song of Serenity) would now have Quell the Beast and would keep Beckoning, but would exchange Beast Within for Feral Whispers.. Conversely, the Storyteller may set a "wholesale price" of Experience to acquire these new Disciplines, such as requiring the player above to pay a set price of six Experience Traits before making the exchange.

Characters with Advanced Disciplines won't be forced to buy new power levels since they won't be improving (unless they reach elder levels). However, the utility of many of the lower-level powers means that they will often be bought in any case. There's no real need to require players to do so; a character with Advanced Presence should not be forced to spend six Traits for Awe unless the player wants the power.

Characters with Necromancy get the Sepulchre Path in exchange for their former levels of power. Similarly, Thaumaturgy users take their highest path as their primary path; if any other paths equal this rating, they should be kept but not allowed to improve until the primary path advances.

CHANGING BACKGROUNDS

Influence Backgrounds remain unchanged. The same categories of Influence still exist, with the same levels, so they are no trouble for converted characters.

The various other Backgrounds were not previously used in Laws of the Night, but converting characters now get two Traits to choose among those Backgrounds (except Sabbat, who get none). Characters who lowered generation with Negative Traits get back some of those Traits: since generation used to cost two Negative Traits per step, the character gets a refund of one Trait per step, usable as Bonus Traits. The character's generation should not change as a result, though.

Laws of the Night

124

CONVERTING THE LAST TOUCHES

CHANGING BLOOD TRAITS

Generation determines a character's total Blood Traits. Don't worry about existing Traits; simply test for blood, as described previously, the next time that the character comes into play. Since all characters now use the adjusted Blood Pools, this conversion should not prove troublesome.

CHANGING WILLPOWER TRAITS

No changes need be made to Willpower Traits, since the generation limits still apply. ASSIGNING VIRTUE TRAITS

Converted characters take the appropriate Virtues for their Morality and assign a number of Virtue Traits equal to twice their Morality Traits. A character with two Humanity Traits would thus have one free Trait in Conscience, Self-Control and Courage, plus four additional Virtue Traits to spend.

UPDATING FLAWS AND NEGATIVE TRAITS

Most Negative Traits remain the same, though the Negative Social Trait Feral was added. Flaws, on the other hand, have some changes in Traits, and in some cases a few were removed entirely. The best solution is to use the rules from Laws of the Night's previous editions until such time as the player can pay the difference to remove the Flaw. In the case that a Flaw's Trait value actually increases, simply use those Traits to pay for any other differences in character cost, before adding to the character's pool of Experience Traits with the difference.

CONVERTING MERITS AND FREE TRAITS

Many Merits were removed from the game, or changed in Trait value. As with Flaws, the best solution is to allow the character to pay the difference in (non- doubled) Experience Traits, or to simply use the old rules until the player has the appropriate Traits. A character with a Merit that no longer exists should be allowed to "cash in" the Merit, refunding the Trait value for Experience.

Lastly, spend five Free Traits-under the Free Trait costs, not Experience Trait costs to finish the conversion.

CONVERTING CHARACTERS FROM TABLETOP PLAY

Moving a character from tabletop play to live-action can be a little tricky, but it's generally worth the effort. Watching your favorite character blossom into full flower as you take on the role physically is both rewarding and exhilarating.

The new systems in Laws of the Night are designed to mesh more smoothly with Vampire: The Masquerade, so tracking the various Disciplines and At- tributes is straightforward.

CONVERTING VIRTUES AND MORALITY

The Virtue Trait system for Mind's Eye Theatre runs very close to the tabletop system now, unlike the old Beast Trait system. Virtue Traits convert directly across, with one dot turning into one Trait.

Morality scales are compressed, though, for ease of testing. One Trait of Morality (Humanity or Path) equals two dots of tabletop Morality. Round fractions up, in favor of the character being converted.

CONVERTING TABLETOP CLANS

The clans in the tabletop game do have clan weaknesses, but not clan advantages. Assign the clan advantages normally to the character while converting as a bonus of the system.

Character Creation and Trails

125

CONVERTING TABLETOP ATTRIBUTES

Attributes in the tabletop game are rated in dots, from one to five. To simulate this rating in live-action play, simply drop the first dot from each one, and then assign an appropriate adjective for each additional dot.

If your character happens to have a score of one or zero in a Trait, you should take a Negative Trait of the appropriate type.

Example: John Slime, the Nosferatu, has a Stamina of 5 dots but an Appearance of 0. When converted, he gets 4 Stamina-related or miscellaneous Physical Traits, but must take a Negative Social Trait. Kurt decides to take the Physical Traits of Vigorous, Enduring, Tough and Resilient, and he assigns the Negative Social Trait Obnoxious (in addition to John Slime's existing Repugnant x 3 Traits).

CONVERTING TABLETOP ABILITIES

The Abilities in tabletop play are more extensive, and they tend to have higher levels, than in live-action.

Instead of trying to take levels for every dot in Abilities, look at the highest Abilities on the character sheet. Assign one level to each Ability with three dots, and an additional level to any Ability with four or five dots. If you come up with less than five Abilities, simply take the next highest one and take one level in it. CONVERTING TABLETOP DISCIPLINES AND BACKGROUNDS

Disciplines and Backgrounds in Laws of the Night correspond exactly to the levels in Vampire: The Masquerade. Take one level in each of the appropriate Traits for each dot in the tabletop game.

The sole exception is the Influence Background. This Background runs from one to five dots in the tabletop game, but it is subdivided into several categories for live-action play. In Mind's Eye Theatre conversions, simply split up any dots of Influence into any desired levels of Influence that total the same amount. If your character has three dots of Influence, you get to spread around three Traits of Influence in live-action play, among whatever categories desired (or all in one). CONVERTING BLOOD TRAITS AND WILLPOWER

Blood Traits are used exactly the same in both live-action and tabletop play. They convert normally.

Willpower, on the other hand, varies with generation in Laws of the Night, but is a static one to 10 dots in Vampire: The Masquerade. To deal with this difference, pro-rate the character's Willpower based on her total in tabletop. That is, a 13th-generation character with six dots of Willpower is at 60 percent of maximum Willpower for a tabletop game; the equivalent in live-action would be two Traits.

Example: John Slime is a 10th-generation Nosferatu. He has seven dots of Willpower in tabletop play-70 percent of maximum. In live-action, he would have between two and five Willpower Traits. 70 percent of the way between the two is four, so John Slime has four Willpower Traits.

CONVERTING TABLETOP MERITS AND FLAWS

The Merits and Flaws from Vampire: The Masquerade have direct correspon- dences to this material, so conversion isn't a problem. However, make sure that you understand the full text of the live-action version. Often, the change to live-action impacts the game mechanical effects of a given Merit or Flaw.

Laws of the Night

(26

SAMPLE CHARACTER CREATION

Alyson is looking to join a local troupe for a game of Masquerade, and after checking with Brian, the Storyteller, she decides she wishes to play one of the Kindred. Alyson puts on an inspirational CD while the two of them take a copy of the rulebook and sit down to create a character.

STEP ONE: CONCEPT

Alyson begins by looking for a concept, a basic idea which she can build her character around. She decides that she wants to play a tough humanitarian, someone who once was a warrior for a cause but ultimately found that people were more important than slogans, and who now struggles to aid the less fortunate around her. Thinking a little more, she decides her character was a fiery Southern belle who took an active role in the upheaval of the last century and ultimately attracted a vampire's eye with her fierce dedication. Brian likes the concept and approves it: a vampire who actively battles her Beast in order to help others sounds like an excellent roleplaying opportunity. Because she was formerly quite a firebrand, Alyson decides the Brujah clan was the most likely to have embraced her, but that her new views have probably alienated her from her peers-another good story hook for later on. She chooses Caregiver for her Nature (adding interesting depth and departing nicely from the stereotypical Brujah, much to Brian's relief), and picks Survivor for her Demeanor, reflecting the tough facade her character has developed since being on her own. Humanity is the obvious choice for her Morality Path, and Alyson decides the character will be part of the Camarilla as opposed to the inhuman Sabbat. Finally a name for her character comes to her-Daron. Alyson is ready to move on to the next step.

STEP Two: ATTRIBUTES

Alyson has to prioritize Daron's Attribute categories now, to determine her basic strengths and weaknesses. She takes Physical as Daron's primary Trait category, Mental as her secondary, and Social as her tertiary. Alyson explains that Daron believes in helping out with her own two hands and learned to take care of herself in her rebel days (Physical), that she has always been good at putting her mind to a task and never backing down (Mental), but that sometimes she is a bit rough with people's feelings and tends to be overly direct at times (Social). Now Alyson must choose individual Traits for each category, beginning with seven Physical Traits. She chooses Ferocious, Quick, Quick, Enduring, Athletic, Steady and Wiry. That makes Daron someone who's physically dependable and useful in a scrap-a good combination for her chosen calling. Next is Mental, with five traits, and Alyson picks the Traits Alert, Observant, Disciplined, Determined and Clever, reflecting Daron's strong personality and her awareness of conditions around her. Finally comes Social, with only three Traits. Alyson takes Intimidating, Persuasive and Magnetic-Daron has the makings of a decent leader, but still uses force to get things done from time to time.

STEP THREE: ADVANTAGES

Now Alyson has to choose Daron's Abilities. Although she sees so many she'd like Daron to have, she begins by choosing some Abilities appropriate to Daron's warrior past: Brawl, Firearms and Dodge. Then she takes Empathy and Streetwise, representing what Daron has learned during the time she's spent walking alongside the downtrod den. These choices also give Daron a wide scope of talents, something that appeals to Alyson's notion of her as an independent crusader used to being on her own.

Disciplines come next; here too is another area Alyson wants to have a broad base of powers to call upon, given the complicated nature of Daron's cause. As a

Character Creation and Trails

127