And's Eye Theatre

AW

WS

"Night

Revised Rules for Playing Vampires

VAMPIRE

THE MASQUERADE

RENDEZVOUS A CAUTIONARY TALE

"It is," Peter Coleman said, "really goddamned dark in here." He ran his fingers down the lapels of his suit out of nervous habit, checking to see that he was still immaculately groomed, even in pitch blackness. "I don't see why we have to wait in the dark."

He felt a soft finger on his lips in response. "Hush," came the voice of his associate from somewhere to his left. "You know exactly why we are here. If we do not stand in the dark, then we are visible to your little friend Kevin. If we are visible to your little friend Kevin, then Kevin may remember our faces and have that memory dragged out of him by any one of our rivals. I, for one, would prefer to minimize my risks."

Coleman rolled his eyes, he hoped invisibly. "As you say, Donata. I humbly beg your pardon, and I shall wait in silence until our little friend arrives." With that, Peter shut his eyes and began mentally fiddling with projections on a few IPOs that were scheduled for the next month and a half. He whistled tunelessly as he did so, feeling, rather than seeing, Donata bristle beside him.

"Must you do that?" she said, an edge of real irritation coloring her voice. Her words echoed hollowly in the space of the tunnel they stood in. "He'll hear you and get spooked, and then all this will be for naught."

Peter smiled and sat down on a projecting ledge. The concrete was surprisingly smooth and cool to the touch, and he found himself hoping that there wouldn't be too much dust on his suit when he got out of here. "Are you sure it isn't that I'm offending your delicate sensibilities? I'm sure that you've heard much finer whistling in Elysium."

Laves of the Night

Donata took a step to the left, gritting her teeth almost audibly. "Whatever you say, Peter. Don't make this more difficult than it has to be. We can go back to hating each other properly once all of this is finished, but in the meantime, I'll do my best to make this endurable if you will. Do we have an arrangement?"

"We have," Peter said, "several. But you are, as always, right." He checked his watch, which glowed a faint green. "Damn. The boy is late."

"His kind always is," said Donata, and sat in the darkness beside him. He glanced her way once, barely seeing her silhouette through the gloom, but made no move to acknowledge her presence.

Side by side, the two predators sat and waited. It was one of the things that they'd gotten very good at over the years.

Kevin skulked up the storm drain tunnel, his boots making only the slightest of splashes as he trudged through the shallow stream that ran through the conduit. Every 15 steps or so, he paused to look behind him and make sure that he wasn't being followed, while he let the echoes of his footsteps fade away. He kept to the water because he'd been told that it made you harder to track, and he definitely didn't want anyone tracking him tonight.

("He's coming," Donata said, a quarter mile ahead. "I can hear him." Coleman frowned and said that he heard nothing. "That," she responded, "is your problem. To me he's clear as day. Now be quiet. He'll be here shortly.") A full 20 minutes later, Kevin finally took the last cautious steps to the meet point. To outside eyes, the place was just another dank section of storm drain, but the instructions he'd received told Kevin that he would meet his contacts here. He looked around. The place was pitch black, and there was no sign of any other presence, human or otherwise. He stood for a minute, then muttered a curse under his breath and turned to go.

"That's far enough, Kevin," came a voice from the darkness. "Stop right there." "What if I don't want to?" he blustered, making a big show of splashing back a few steps in the direction he'd come from.

"You really don't want to test me, Kevin," the voice said wearily. "I'm right behind you, and if you take another step, I'll rip your throat out and go looking for another runner. Kristof recommended you to me because he said you were smart. Be smart now, and stop."

Beside Coleman, Donata could barely swallow her laughter. Kristof the Nosferatu had recommended Kevin, yes - but because he was expendable. Intelligence was never part of the equation.

"Okay," Kevin said. "I'm stopping, but only because I want to." He turned around slowly. "So where are you? Show yourself. What's your name? Why the hell did we have to do this here?"

"Because," Donata said, "we know how important your friends are to you, Kevin. We know how they feel about us, too, and we know that if they found out you were talking to us, they'd turn on you in a minute. They'd abandon you, leave you to the streets on your own, maybe even try to hurt you." Her voice was full of loving mock concern. "We couldn't let that

Rendezvous

happen to our favorite runner, now, could we? All this," and she paused breathily, "is for your protection."

Kevin snarled. "And you get nothing out of it? Bullshit. You don't want your high-and-mighty friends to know that you've been talking to someone like me, do you? Hell, you don't even want me to know who you are, because you're afraid I'll shoot my mouth off." There was silence for a moment, then he continued. "Well, we'll play it your way for now, but don't make the mistake of thinking I'm some kind of common idiot."

"Of course not," Coleman said soothingly. You're a unique kind of idiot, he thought instead.

\-

"Yeah. Sure. Whatever. So, where's the package?"

"Taped to the underside of the manhole cover in the next chamber, and in a waterproof case. Directions on where to deliver it are attached. Deliver it to the drop point tomorrow at midnight, and your payment will be waiting for you at the address indicated on the papers inside." Truth be known, there was no such address at all. Coleman's plan was for Kevin to open the package which contained important papers relating to the prince of the city's finances at the drop point, then close it back without bothering to seal it properly. Coleman would, no doubt, get some blame for having chosen an unreliable courier, but the brunt of the prince's wrath would come down on Kevin and those like him. The prince was irrational that way, it seemed. And an irrational prince who was angry made mistakes-mistakes that meant that there might be opportunities for ambitious Kindred to move up in the city's hierarchy.

Peter Coleman was very, very ambitious. As for Donata del Este, she was not quite so driven, but she had a certain vested interest in seeing to it that Peter's star continued to rise higher than those of her rivals.

Kevin was simply belligerent. "And the money?"

Donata sighed. "Already waiting for you. Now, are you going to do it?" "Yeah, I'll do it." He took a few steps toward the exit, smiling to himself, "but on one condition."

"What is that?" Peter said, his voice low and guarded. Unbidden, he got off the ledge and into a fighting stance.

"This\!" Kevin took a camera out of his pocket, pointed it at the voices he'd heard and pressed the button.

Donata had heard the whine of the camera's flash charging up, but she had had no idea what it was. As a result, she was completely unprepared for the flood of white light. As she had been straining her vision to its utmost already, aided by her supernaturally acute perceptions, the tide of brilliance hit her like a sledgehammer. She screamed, staggered and fell.

Cursing, Coleman leapt down onto Kevin, who stood with his eyes half-shaded. The anarch saw him coming and tried to run, but he could only turn and take a single step before the Ventrue was on him. With a snarl, Coleman grabbed the back of Kevin's jacket and bodily slammed him into the concrete of the storm drain wall. There was a sharp crack, as several of Kevin's teeth shattered on impact. Coleman then pulled the dazed vampire back to glare at him.

Laws of the Night

"All right, little anarch, you've had your fun. What the hell was that about?" Behind him, Donata groped blindly in the water, weeping bloody tears of pain.

"It wasn't nothing, man\! I just wanted a look at your faces\! I wanted to know who I was dealing with\!" Kevin was terrified, and he babbled the words out around the shards of his broken teeth.

"Not good enough," Coleman said, slamming Kevin's face into the wall again. "Who else are you working for? Who wanted to know about this meeting?" He spared a glance back at Donata, then turned his attention to Kevin again. "Tell me, and I may let you walk out of here. Don't, and all that's going to be left of you will be a bloodstain on this wall."

"No one, man\! I swear, it was no one\!"

"Wrong answer," Peter said grimly. He bashed Kevin into the concrete again. The impact would have pulped the skull of a human being, but both Peter and Kevin were a long way past human. "Now, are you ready to talk?"

"I'll talk, I'll talk," Kevin whimpered. "Just don't hurt me anymore." "A much wiser choice." Coleman dropped the anarch. "So who was it?" "Warburton. It was Warburton. He's moving up, so he wanted to find out who was 'consorting with anarchs' and turn them over to your prince. I was supposed to get your faces and then run, while his people picked up the package." Kevin was sobbing harder than Donata was. By now, she had pulled herself to her feet unsteadily and taken a few staggering steps toward the other two vampires.

"Well, Mr. Warburton is going to have to do without your services, Kevin. I'm sorry, but when you double-crossed us, you became a liability. And liabilities are only good for one thing: write-offs." Coleman's voice was surprisingly calm and controlled. "Say good night, Kevin."

"Wait." Donata spoke up. "I have a better idea."

"Oh?" Coleman turned to her. "Do tell."

"If you kill this piece of trash, we'll only look guilty in Warburton's eyes. Instead, I say we take little Kevin here," and there was no affection in her voice now, only cold rage, "and turn him."

"Hmm." Coleman rubbed his chin thoughtfully. "An interesting point. But how are we going to accomplish that, given the resources at hand?"

"Leave that to me," Donata said. "Leave that to me."

Kevin loped west along High Street, smiling. His mouth was a bloody ruin, but Donata, lovely Donata, had assured him that his teeth would grow back soon enough. It was amazing to him that he'd ever thought of betraying her. He shook his head. How foolish he had been.

Now, though, he could repay her for that breach of trust. He could prove to her that he was worthy of being loved.

First, he thought, he would go to Warburton and bear false witness against two other Kindred who'd once said unkind things about his beloved. Then, he'd go hunting for a suitable gift for his lady. He didn't think either chore would take him very long.

Rendezvous

"So what did you do to him?" Coleman's voice was only mildly curious, as if he were asking out of mere politeness.

Donata sipped at her goblet before replying. Both she and Coleman had been dreadfully late for the evening's gathering at Elysium because of the misadventure with Kevin, but she counted it as a blessing. The delay had allowed her to make a suitably attention-worthy entrance, and that sort of notice was worth more than gold to her.

"Oh, just a trifle," she said. "I made him love me."

Coleman's eyebrow shot up. "You can do that?"

She nodded, then leaned over and kissed him. Her mouth was cold, but so was his. He could taste blood on her lips; it was sweeter than he expected. "I can indeed. He's mine now. Think about that the next time you want to spend the evening in a sewer with someone." She smiled without mirth, and walked away.

Coleman stared after her, rubbing his mouth absently with the back of his hand. "I'll bear that in mind," he said softly. "Don't worry, I don't think I'll ever forget."

Mind's

Eye Theatre

W S

"Night

Laws of the Night

CREDITS

Written by:Jason Carl, Jess Heinig, Peter Woodworth

Additional writing by:Richard E. Dansky

Development by: Cynthia Summers

Editing by:Carl Bowen

Previously published material has appeared in:Vampire The Masquerade Re-

vised, Laws of the Night

Art direction by:Rich Thomas

Art by:Pauline Benney, Louis Cahill

Front and back cover design:Pauline Benney

Layout and typesetting by:Pauline Benney

Mind's Eye Theatre Design: Mark Rein Hagen, Ian Lemke and Mike Tinney World of Darkness Created by: Mark Rein⚫Hagen

Playtesters:Kathryn Abromovich, Chris Arnold, David Blackwell, Michael Blank, Brian Clark, Shaun Crawford, Michael Dent, Julian Dillard, Jim Fillmore, David Flannery, Brian Gates, Misty Gates, Alyson Gaul, Jody Gerst Crystal Greenlee, Jason Hale, Brock Hall, James M. Hendricks, Geoff Hinkle, Matthew Kauffman, Tim Leber, Chris Loeffler, Tori Mauslein, Jeremiah McCoy, Glenys Ngaire McGhee, Sarah McIlvaine, Mike Metcalf, Laura Middleton, Joshua Patterson, Sarah Riggs, John Sargent, Matthew Skipper, Marc Spencer, Bill Terry, Golden Sky Tullis, Jim Vasquez, Peter Woodworth, W. Andrew Woodworth

SPECIAL THANKS TO:

Greg "Greener Pastures" Fountain, for finding them while he could. Jess "Wax the Diablerist" Heinig, for putting the twinks to bed.

Earle and Kenndra "Tender Friends" Durboraw, for burdens lightened. Sarah "Heavenward Path" Halter, to encourage her dreams. Grande Masquerade II, for beginning the downward spiral. ...and you, the fans-it's all for you.

©1999 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights re- 735 PARK NORTH BLVD.

served. Reproduction without the written permission SUITE 128 of the publisher is expressly forbidden, except for the CLARKSTON, GA 30021 Purposes of reviews, and for blank character sheets, which may be reproduced for personal use only. White WHITE WOLF USA

Wolf, Vampire the Masquerade, Vampire the Dark GAME STUDIO

Ages, Mage the Ascension and World of Darkness are registered trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Werewolf the Apocalypse, Wraith the Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, Werewolf the Wild West, Trinity, Laws of the Night, The Long Night, Liber des Goules, The Shining Host, Laws

of the Wild, Laws of the Hunt, Laws of the Hunt Players Guide, and Oblivion are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. All characters, names, places and text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, Inc.

The mention of or reference to any company or product in these pages is not a challenge to the trademark or copyright concerned.

This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters and themes. All mystical and supernatural elements are fiction and intended for entertainment purposes only. Reader discretion is advised.

Check out White Wolf online at

http://www.white-wolf.com; alt.games.whitewolf and rec.games.frp.storyteller

PRINTED IN CANADA

Mind's Eye Theatre

WAS

of the

Ni

CONTENTS

RENDEZVOUS: A CAUTIONARY TALE

CHAPTER ONE: INTRODUCTION

CHAPTER TWO: THE CLANS

I

ΙΟ

24

CHAPTER THREE: CHARACTER CREATION AND TRAITS 58

CHAPTER FOUR: DISCPLINES

CHAPTER FIVE: RULES, SYSTEMS AND DRAMA

CHAPTER SIX: STORYTELLING

CHAPTER SEVEN: ALLIES AND ANTAGONISTS

128

186

222

248

CHAPTER ONE: INTRODUCTION

STORIES AROUND THE FIRE

Once upon a time, long before television or computers or even books, people sat around the fire and told stories for entertainment. Whether it was a ballad of a hero's latest exploits or a cautionary tale about dealing with the hidden creatures of the world, storytellers were a valued part of the community as teachers and entertainers. And tale-telling was hardly a passive art-the storyteller relied on his audience for reaction to his tale as he spoke. How else would he know if they were enjoying the story, or if they were getting bored?

Time marched on, and technological developments began to change, if not interfere with, the storyteller's art. Books (and the development of greater literacy among people) meant that someone could simply read a story whenever he liked, instead of hunting down a storyteller to tell it. Radio and television remade the storyteller into an impassive creature that did not encourage audience participation. Stories were still told, and in great quantity, but they were largely sterile, unliving things.

Now we come to the 1970s, and the era of roleplaying. A group of players sits around a table, listening to their leader describe scenes of dank dungeons and dark cities, and they choose which path to take next. At one of these sessions, someone gets the idea to start standing up, moving and thinking as her character might. Over time, more players do the same, creating what will become known as live-action roleplaying (or LARP). In fact, this "new" entertainment is a return to the oldest- the leader was the storyteller, taking his listeners on a new journey, and the listeners were responding in kind, taking on the roles of the characters in the story, telling this new tale to the storyteller, the other player-listeners and to themselves. WHATIS Mind's Eye Theatre?

This game is probably unlike anything you have played before. In many ways, it's not really a game, because it doesn't have a lot of the trappings of games-such as cards, dice or a playing board. It's also far more concerned with the stories to be told along the way than "winning."It's far more like the make-believe of childhood than what most people typically think of when they imagine "games." This book contains all the information you'll need to start playing and telling your own stories. You create the action, you choose the path to follow, you decide what risks to accept. We call this style of game Mind's Eye Theatre.

Introduction

Playing Mind's Eye Theatre is like being in a movie. You and your friends are the characters, but there is no script. There may be a framework or setting that determines the parameters of the world around you, but you and the others around you are creating the story as you play. The "director" of this movie is the Storyteller, assisted by Narrators. The Storyteller creates the stage and the minor characters that the players interact with to tell this story.

Most scenes in Mind's Eye Theatre are played out in real-time- an hour in the make-believe world is 60 minutes long, and it takes up 60 minutes in the real world-and always in character. Players always remain in character during the game unless there is a rules dispute.

CHARACTERS

When you play Masquerade (the game for which this book was developed), you take on another persona, most likely a vampire. Your character can be almost anything from any walk of life, age, creed, race or sex. The only limit is your imagination. When you create this character, you decide what she says or does. You decide where she goes and what choices she makes. During the game, you speak as your character, unless you're resolving a rules dispute or talking to the Storyteller. Because most of what a Mind's Eye Theatre player perceives around him depends on the other players, all players must be vivid and expressive.

While the characters may direct the plot through their actions, the plot reacts in ways that direct the characters. For example, a character decides she wants to create a coffeehouse with space for people to perform, and she invites another vampire to sing for an evening-here, the characters are directing the plot through their actions. However, the plot reacts to this direction-the Storyteller tells the characters that the performance has aroused some suspicious attention. It seems that the performing character reminds someone of another famous human singer, who also just happened to die at the same time the character became a vampire. Thus is a story built in Mind's Eye Theatre.

Creating a character for Masquerade is easy, and it takes just a few minutes. Only a few things become necessary to define the basic capabilities of a character, and when they're done, you can start playing. There's another phase to creating a character, though. A character is, by and large, like a person, and people aren't just flat cardboard cutouts with a few numbers to represent what they can do. People have pasts, likes and dislikes, goals and dreams-all the intangible things that make a person into what other people see when he walks into a room or talks to them. It's not much different from all the care that an actor or author takes when creating a character. So as you're

VAMPIRE: THE MASQUERADE AND LAWS OF THE NIGHT

This book is based on the tabletop creation Vampire: The Masquerade. While it is not necessary to own or know Vampire to play this game, some players may find it helpful for more setting material. There are a number of Vampire- related books with material that can be adapted for live-action play.

This edition of Laws of the Night has been created to update the rules for Vampire's live-action adaptation, Masquerade. Since the creation of the original rules, continuous play has seen a few bugs crop up, and this book is designed to correct some of the those problems. Those with older editions of Laws of the Night may find some significant differences between the two, and it is advised that a Storyteller rule which edition of Laws of the Night is canon for the game for the sake of clarity and consistency.

Laws of the Nigh

12

creating your character, think a little about where she comes from, what she wants out of her existence, what she'll do to get it, what she loves and hates. Does your character love thunderstorms and watch them from the window, or have they frightened her ever since she was a small child? Does your character want to build a business to replace one that was lost several years ago, and he'll bargain with the Devil himself to get it? While certain personality quirks and details will emerge as you play, it's a good idea to have the basics in place for the first time you walk into a room and meet the other characters.

Characters are the heart and soul of the story. Without them, all the efforts of the Storyteller would be for nothing, and there would be no stories to tell. THE STORYTELLER

The Storyteller is the one who creates the world that the players move through. She creates a skeletal framework of setting and plot, then turns the characters loose to put flesh on its bones. More than that, she acts as an impartial judge when the rules are questioned, describes scenes that can't be staged and even plays the parts of antagonists or other people with whom the characters interact. The Storyteller is usually assisted by Narrators, who play their own characters but are ready to answer rules questions when necessary.

Storytelling is a demanding (and occasionally exhausting) task. A Storyteller must oversee the events to be certain that people have a good time, that the rules are being followed and that the story is running smoothly. Sometimes she must create plot elements on the spur of the moment or adjudicate between several quarreling players. In spite of all this responsibility, there is something immensely satisfying about watching the players create something remarkable with the plot elements given them. It really makes the headache all worthwhile.

More on the Storyteller's role can be found in Chapter Six. ELEGANTLY SIMPLE

This game was designed to be easy to play and easier to start. Character creation takes only a few minutes. The basic rules are simple, and they cover most of the encounters a new player will enter. Even very new players who have never played Masquerade or LARP before will find that this game takes little effort to pick up. HOW TO USE THIS BOOK

This book gives you all the basic rules that you'll need to start playing or Storytelling Masquerade.

Chapter One: Introduction-The introduction to both Mind's Eye Theatre and the World of Darkness.

Chapter Two: The Clans - A complete overview of the vampire clans and bloodlines available for play in the World of Darkness.

Chapter Three: Character Creation-Everything that you'll need to create a character to start playing.

Chapter Four: Disciplines-Descriptions of the mysterious powers granted on the Embrace.

Chapter Five: Rules, Systems and Drama-The chapter starts with the basic rules you'll need for play, followed with systems for combat, derangements, health, healing and more vampiric issues, such as the blood bond.

Chapter Six: Storytelling-This chapter speaks to Storytellers and Narrators, both old and new, containing all the ins and outs of how to craft stories and deal with players. Chapter Seven: Allies and Antagonists-Vampires aren't the only creatures of the night. This chapter provides a basic overview of some of the other denizens of the World of Darkness, as well as ways to incorporate them into stories.

Introduction

THE RULES THOU SHALT NEVER BREAK

These are the most important and immutable rules of MET, the ones that keep your game and your players safe from folks who either don't care that you're playing a game, or who take the game way too seriously. Always adhering to these rules will also keep your game amenable to law enforcement and other non-player folks.

No TOUCHING. No STUNTS.

That means none whatsoever. It's far too easy for things to get out hand in the heat of the moment. Save the stunts for your imagination. If you can imagine you're a centuries-old vampire, then you can sure imagine you're swinging on a chandelier or leaping across rooftops.

NO WEAPONS

No matter how careful you are. Whether it's to prevent some fool from skewering himself on your new dagger, or to make sure the police don't think you're a threat, weapons of any sort are forbidden. Even fake or toy weapons, trained attack gerbils or laser pens are not allowed. Use item cards instead.

NO DRUGS OR DRINKING

Well, duh. Drinking and drugs do not inspire peak performance, and players who are so impaired are a threat to other players and the game. It's one thing to play a character who is drunk or stoned, but another thing entirely to actually come to a game under the influence. At best it's tasteless; at worst it's illegal. Don't do it.

IT'S ONLYA GAME

If a character dies, if a plot falls apart, if a rival gets the upper hand, it's just a game. You and the rest of the players are doing this for fun. Taking things too seriously, or taking character issues into real life, will only spoil everyone's enjoyment, including yours. Remember, playing a game should be fun-if you're not having fun, it's time for a reassessment.

Remember to leave the game behind when the session's over. "Soft" roleplaying (conversing in character without challenges) can be fun, and there's nothing wrong with talking about the game afterward at the local diner. On the other hand, demanding weekly clan meetings or trying to rouse your primogen to talk business at three in the morning signifies the need for a change in perspective.

BE MINDFUL OF OTHERS

Not everyone around you is playing the game, and it's in extremely poor taste to try to feed off passers-by. You want to ensure that your game and your players are welcomed. Frightening people and getting the local law enforcement called on you is not the way to do it. This is especially true if you're playing in a public area, such as a park. It can be a very good idea to alert local merchants and police before you play so they're prepared. If you get curiosity-seekers, try to have some business cards on hand and offer to speak with them when you have more time.

Do WHAT WORKS FOR YOU

Weat White Wolf often call this proviso "the golden rule." Your game may have special circumstances that require a few extra bells and whistles to the rules, or your troupe may find a way to handle something that works better for you. So long as people are having fun, go ahead and run with it-it's your game.

Likewise, if you see something that you want in your game that doesn't appear with an MET system, then sit down and cobble up something that will work for you. If MET is all about telling stories, then here's the part where the Storyteller improvises.

HAVE FUN

Not "Win." Not "Go out and conquer everyone else." Just have fun, because in MET, it's not about how the game ends, but what happens along the way.

Laws of the Night

THE WORLD OF DARKNESS

On the surface, the World of Darkness is not too much different from our own. People are born, grow up, work and die every day. Plants grow, as do skyscrapers. The same newspapers are sold on the street comer, and television is the same vast wasteland. Below the surface, however, is a much darker element, one that is fed by the violence and despair which the monsters need to fuel themselves. It is far less simple than throwing a coat of black paint over the veneer of our world. The monsters in the World of Darkness are far too real.

Gothic-Punk is the term used to describe the attitude of the World of Darkness. The "Gothic" aspect is that of the sinister, looming shadow that permeates life. Buildings here, encrusted with gargoyles, dwarf all below them. Despair is a common theme, and any banner that offers hope or power can be certain of many followers. The divisions between haves and have-nots are nearly insurmountable gulfs. The world is a place of mystery-the sort that is uncovered in old books and which is best left alone for safety's sake.

On the other side of the coin is "Punk"--what many citizens of the World of Darkness have done in order to give their lives meaning. They throw themselves against the walls of power in rebellion, often until they forget what they first despised. Crime is more prevalent and more violent. Speech is coarser, fashions are bolder, art seeks only to shock, and technology ensures that everyone gets it at the click of a button.

This is the world that the Cainites call home.

THE KINDRED

Vampires have been fixtures in myth and legend since time immemorial. Some- times they've been monstrous creatures that swooped out of the darkness to ravish innocent virgins and steal babies from their cradles. Other times they've been predators of incredible beauty and sensuality, enchanting men and women alike, offering seductive death in return for a little nip. The vampires of the World of Darkness are all these things and more. There is enough about them that is similar to the vampires of myth and cinema, but more than enough that is different to cause some fatal errors for would-be hunters. The Kindred, as many call themselves, are sentient, with some faint similarities to their mortal selves, but as different from mortals and myth as night from day.

Some myths and suppositions about the undead (as well as the facts behind them) include:

Vampires are immortal. While it is possible to kill a vampire, he will not age or die of natural causes. He does not need water, food or air. For all intents and purposes, he is a corpse. ⚫ Vampires require the blood of the living to survive. While vampires are corpses, they still require nourishment to sustain themselves, and their preferred taste is for blood. Not only does it preserve their bodies, blood allows vampires to perform amazing supernatural feats of healing, strength or speed. A vampire need not kill her prey; some take only a little blood, then hide the evidence of their feeding. A vampire may close any wounds she makes with her fangs by simply licking the wounds. By and large, most vampires seek human blood, although some choose to drink animal blood. Some whisper fearfully that elder vampires must hunt their younger brethren for feeding, unable to gain sustenance from human blood any longer.

Anyone who dies from a vampire's bite will become a vampire. The world would be overrun with vampires if this statement were true. Those bitten and drained by vampires in the course of feeding simply die. It takes a very special process, known as the Embrace, to create a vampire.

Vampires are burned by sunlight. True. Vampires must avoid sunlight or risk death. Vampires are nocturnal creatures, and most find it difficult to stay awake during the day, even out of the sunlight.

Introduction

Vampires are repelled by garlic, they can't cross running water and they cast no reflections. The first two myths are false. Only a few vampires of a particular clan cast no reflection.

A cross or other holy symbol can burn or repel a vampire. Generally untrue. The symbol itself is of little power. It is the faith of the person who wields the symbol that the vampire must fear.

Vampires will die from a stake through the heart. While they cannot die from such wounds, vampires are immobilized by wooden stakes, arrows, crossbow bolts and the like that pierce the heart, until the item is removed.

THE EMBRACE

The Embrace is the process by which a new vampire is sired, or created. It is almost never given lightly; after all, one more predator means more competition for resources. Some vampires Embrace to find companionship, others to have conspira- tors or dupes for schemes, others to "give back" something to Kindred society. Potential childer may be watched for weeks, months, even years, without ever realizing that they are being evaluated for immortality.

To Embrace a new vampire, the sire drains her chosen victim of blood, similar to a normal feeding. However, when the victim has been drained to the point of death, the sire places a small amount of her own vampiric blood in the victim's mouth. Even a drop or two can finish the process. The Embrace can even be given to a dead mortal, provided the body is still warm.

During the Embrace, the body reworks itself, sloughing off the imperfections present in every mortal form and becoming more beautiful, albeit with the grace of a predatory animal. The new childe reawakens, but his heart does not beat nor does his blood circulate. He is now one of the living dead. He wakes suffering a ravenous Hunger, his first acquaintance with the monster (or the Beast) that has also been awakened in him.

Over the next few weeks, the young vampire, usually under the tutelage of his sire, undergoes a series of subtle (and not-so-subtle) transformations. He learns to use the powers granted by his blood, such as speed or how to understand animals. He learns of the raging Hunger inside him and how to rein it in. He learns to hunt, often a difficult proposition, as need begins to force him to prey on his former species. He also learns that the Embrace truly makes vampires the living dead. Subtle, higher emotions are the province of mortals, and he may find that he can no longer bring to mind true pleasure or joy or love, except in memory. It is this last that many young Kindred cannot endure during their first weeks. Some choose to greet the morning sun, rather than look ahead to years of cold comfort.

For those vampires who survive their first nights, a much larger world awaits them. THE CAMARILLA

The Camarilla dates back to the years of the Inquisition, as humanity turned its collective eye on vampires. The principle of the Masquerade took root and held sway, growing into the creation of today - a massive, global conspiracy of sorts, meant to deceive humanity about the monsters in its midst, and thus avert another purging. In these times of nuclear devices, powerful governments and enormous populations, the Masquerade has become both guiding principle and ironclad policy. Today, the Camarilla concerns itself with the Masquerade, maintaining harmonious relations between Kindred and kine, and thwarting the Sabbat.

The Camarilla claims all vampires to be under its aegis and proclaims itself the greatest sect of Kindred across the globe. Indeed, it claims that all Cainites are already under its banner, regardless of those vampires' wishes. In spite of the claims, only six clans hold full membership in the sect: Brujah, Malkavian, Nosferatu,

Laws of the Night

10

Toreador, Tremere and Ventrue. Vampires from the other clans may join, but they are often suspect, and without a voice in the Inner Circle, they are largely powerless.

The Inner Circle, considered the true hub of the sect, is said to consist of one representative for each clan, supposedly the very eldest of each. These elders plan out the business and direction of the Camarilla, or as much as a race of predators can be directed. It is also their business to select the justicars, those Kindred who become the walking will of the Inner Circle.

The six mighty vampires called justicars are appointed by the Inner Circle to be its eyes, ears and occasionally fists. It is they who are judge, jury and executioner of the entire sect, save the Inner Circle. They alone may adjudicate matters of the Traditions. They alone decide the punishment for those who have violated the Traditions on a wide scale, and none are above them in this respect. Those being judged by the justicars may not expect mercy. The power wielded by the justicars is immense and often resented by those who have been victims of it, but there is little that can be done about it beyond discontented grumbling. Every justicar is, without exception, several centuries old and extremely powerful.

Below the justicars are the archons, who are singly chosen by a justicar to act in her name as suits her purposes. Most archons are "young" elders and older ancillae, and such a prestigious appointment can make or break them in the halls of power. An archon typically serves for as long as a justicar wishes to retain her, or for the length of the justicar's tenure.

In the Camarilla, the conclave is the greatest political event that every Kindred can be privy to. Any Camarilla or friendly independent vampire who hears the call to

THE TRADITIONS

The Traditions are considered the inviolate rules of Kindred existence, and they have been the basis of all vampiric laws since the time of Caine. Most vampires follow them out of habit, whether because they are common sense suggestions or necessary for survival.

THE FIRST TRADITION: THE MASQUERADE

Thou shalt not reveal thy true nature to those not of the Blood. Doing so shall renounce thy claims of Blood.

THE SECOND TRADITION: THE DOMAIN

Thy domain is thy concern. All others owe thee respect while in it. None may challenge thy word in thy domain.

THE THIRD TRADITION: THE PROGENY

Thou shalt sire another one with permission of thine elder. If thou createst another without thine elder's leave, both thou and thy progeny shall be slain.

THE FOURTH TRADITION: THE ACCOUNTING

Those thou create are thine own childer. Until thy progeny shall be released, thou shalt command them in all things. Their sins are thine to endure.

THE FIFTH TRADITION: HOSPITALITY

Honor one another's domain. When thou comest to a foreign city, thou shalt present thyself to the one who ruleth there. Without the word of acceptance, thou art nothing.

THE SIXTH TRADITION: DESTRUCTION

Thou art forbidden to destroy another of thy kind. The right of destruction belongeth only to thine elder. Only the eldest among thee shall call the blood hunt.

Introduction

17

conclave may come and participate, no matter her age. Justicars are the only ones with the power to call for a conclave, which is not done often owing to the immense concerns of security. Conclave business may cover any subject, from discussing matters that concern the sect as a whole to trials of very powerful Kindred (such as princes) to a docket of questions presented in an open forum. In these halls, quite literally anything can happen-a sire may introduce his newest childe to his great-grandsire, the youth may come to party and socialize and elders may meet in secret gatherings to whisper about new concerns. For the young, it is an opportunity to fraternize with clanmates from across the country and a chance to see the political machinery of the Camarilla in action, perhaps even to affect it. For the elders, it is both social opportunity and a time to take stock of the sect, not to mention a priceless opportunity to cement deals and accomplish business. THE SABBAT

The Inquisition also spawned another movement of the vampires, but a far more brutal one. As the witch-fires raged, the elder vampires took threw their childer into harm's way in an effort to save their own hides. Finally, many of these abused childer rose up and rebelled against their sires. The resulting fight was called the Anarch Revolt. Fueled by youthful rage and strange secrets from Eastern Europe that allowed them to break the bonds of blood that held them to their sires, the anarchs wrought terror on the elders. But for all that they made the elders suffer, they also suffered losses to the Inquisition's fires.

The battle ground to a stalemate, and both sides called for parley. The Treaty of Thoms put an official end to hostilities, allowed those Kindred who wished to return to the Camarilla's fold to do so, and punished those who had been most instrumental in the fight. However, not everyone was so convinced of the Camarilla's promises, and these die-hard rebels turned their backs on the Camarilla entirely. Many of them joined to create their own force that would set itself opposite the Camarilla, called the Sabbat. Since those days, the Sabbat and the Camarilla have continued, diametrically opposed to one another, hounding and thwarting each other at any opportunity, up unto the modern nights.

The Sabbat claims two clans - the shadowy Lasombra and the monstrous Tzimisce-which make up the larger part of the membership. The rest are antitribu of the Camarilla and independent clans. These turncoats are like dark mirrors of their Camarilla brethren, reveling in their vampiric natures and often setting themselves fiercely opposite their former clanmates.

The Sabbat organizes itself in a parody of the Catholic Church, from which much of its ritual springs. At the lowest level is the pack, which is led by a leader and a priest. Above the pack are the bishop and archbishop, who oversee Sabbat activity in a city. Cardinals coordinate Sabbat activity in regions, while the regent in Mexico City oversees the entire sect, aided by the prisci. Paladins and templars serve as assassins and bodyguards for the regent, prisci and cardinals.

Freedom and loyalty are the guiding principles of the Sabbat. A vampire, as a superior being, is free to choose what she will, so long as she maintains her first loyalty to her sect. Above all, the sect looks ahead to the nights of Gehenna, fearing the prophecies of the Antediluvians, and it is determined to survive it by any means necessary. And the means of the Sabbat include merciless cunning, brutality and perversion - whatever it takes to both spite the enemy and thwart the future.

ALLTHE REST

The other clans - including the Gangrel, Assamites, Giovanni, Followers of Set, Ravnos and the minor bloodlines (the Daughters of Cacophony, Salubri and Samedi)-do not claim membership in either sect. Those who choose to join the sects are a minor handful in comparison to their clanmates.

Laws of the Night

(18

By and large, these clans have their own goals, which do not include playing sectarian politics. Though they follow the Traditions and may lean one way or another toward a particular sect out of convenience or personal philosophy, they follow their own paths. A few may choose to join with one sect or another, but they are exceptions to the rule, and they are distrusted by both their clanmates and sectmates.

The Gangrel were among the original founding members of the Camarilla, but they have chosen to leave the sect for their own reasons. The clan continues to lean toward many of the Camarilla's principles, but it does not include itself in politics or parley. While rumors of the circumstances behind the sudden departure abound, the Gangrel themselves do not talk of it. Many even become hostile when pressed about the matter.

Bloodlines are either Kindred who are some strange offshoot of a parent clan (which often does not acknowledge the relationship) or a former clan that has lost its founding Antediluvian (such as the Salubri). Bloodlines often walk perilous lines, as they make handy scapegoats, and many clans fear their strange abilities. Many are so rare that the average Kindred has never heard of them. THE GENERATION SPREAD

As creatures who are (for all effects) immortal, age carries great weight among the Kindred. More importantly, a Kindred's generation can mark one as a youth or elder. Among some sects, age and generation can be one of the greatest barriers to advancement of any kind. This is a case where it can be truly said that less is more.

According to the most widely accepted history of the Kindred, vampires are descended from Caine, he of Biblical fame who murdered his brother Abel and was subsequently banished to the land of Nod by God. Caine's vampirism was said to be a curse from God in punishment for the crime. Caine sired three childer, who sired their own childer, and so on, down into the modern nights.

Second Generation-Directly sired by Caine, little is known of these three. It is believed they died at the hands of their childer or during the Great Flood.

Third Generation - These vampires are known as the Antediluvians, so called because they predate the Flood, and it is from them that the clans are said to descend. Every clan had an Antediluvian founder at one time, and most believe that they slumber the ages away in torpor. It is they who are the true players of the Jyhad, those who move their pawns in point and counterpoint, as they have for the past centuries. Antediluvians are considered almost divine in the scope of their abilities, and all vampires fear their touch upon the unlives of others, for none escape unscathed.

Fourth and Fifth Generations - Called Methuselahs, these vampires are millennia old and almost as powerful as the Antediluvians. They involve themselves in the Jyhad behind screens of lesser Kindred, out of sight, as their potent blood makes them a favored target of diablerists. It is said that the most influential members of the Camarilla and the Sabbat's regent and prisci are Methuselahs.

Sixth, Seventh and Eighth Generations - Members of these generations are typically considered elders. They are the most visible players of the Jyhad, and many princes, primogen and justicars tend to hail from their ranks. Most elders find it inconceivable that they could be manipulated in the Jyhad, although they often are, unknown to them.

Ninth and Tenth Generations-The ancillae walk a dangerous line: While too old and experienced to be neonates, they are usually considered too inexperienced and weak to hold their own among the elders. Most prefer to meet the night on their own terms, and the elder generations are often pursuing other concerns to do much about it. Like mortal teenagers, ancillae are getting a taste for the power and influence that they may soon possess.

11th, 12th and 13th Generations-Neonates and young ancillae hail from these generations. Most are relatively new to vampirism, and though more potent Introduction

than the mortals they hail from, they are as insects among the older generations. Inexperienced and often heady with their new power, some run rampant. Most MET characters will be of these generations.

14th and 15th Generations-These Kindred are so far removed from Caine that their blood has become weak and the Curse does not manifest as strongly in them. Some are rumored to be able to bear the light of the sun or eat food, although they can rarely sire childer. Older Kindred fear these modern youth, as The Book of Nod makes claim that the thin-blooded ones will herald the coming of Gehenna.

GHOULS THOSE WHO SERVE

Many vampires are served and assisted by mortal retainers. After all, it's quite useful to have someone who can go places a vampire cannot, such as outside (during the day) or into dangerous territory. Of these servants, there are those who have partaken of vampire blood without receiving the Embrace. These servants are known as ghouls.

Ghouls receive a number of benefits from their servitude-they often develop limited vampiric powers (such as speed, strength and accelerated healing), they cease to age as long as they have vampire blood in them and grateful masters may reward them with considerable wealth and influence. By and large, ghouls are still mortal and able to enjoy all the pleasures of mortal life. However, as in all things, there are drawbacks. Many ghouls become subject to the blood bond, developing a "devotion" to their masters that deepens into aberration or psychosis. Not every vampire is kindly to his servants, and abuses are common. And ultimately, no matter how prized, a ghoul is still a servant and disposable should the need arise.

The Sabbat scorns ghouls by and large, with two exceptions. Revenant families are comprised of hereditary ghouls who are born with vampire blood already in their veins. Many are seared with physical disability or psychoses, which suits the purposes of their Tzimisce masters. A few are occasionally rewarded with the Embrace for faithful service. The other exception are the fleshcrafted nightmares created by the Tzimisce known as szlachta and vozhd. These monstrosities are used as attack dogs, war-machines and tides of horror in the campaign against the Camarilla. Most have been so reshaped and molded by their masters that they are not even remotely human-looking. WHO HUNTS THE HUNTERS

It might be supposed from all this talk that the Kindred are powerful enough to run amuck, terrorizing humanity and using the world as their playground and abattoir. Centuries ago, certainly, vampires walked more openly among mortals, flaunting their immortality and supernatural powers, and stretching an iron hand over demenses of terrified mortals. Then the mortals finally rebelled, turning the collective might of the Church and humanity against their vampiric "lords." For over 200 years, the Inquisition held the Kindred in terror, and in these nights, no Kindred who recalls those times wishes to see them come again.

In these days, there are dedicated mortals who are aware of the vampiric threat and who hunt it with the fervor of their medieval predecessors. The most notable organization of hunters is the Inquisition, which bases itself in the Catholic Church but has opened itself to those of other denominations recently. Another, more scholarly group called the Arcanum has observed the Kindred for over a century, and it shares its knowledge occasionally with more "active" hunters. Individual hunters, men and women driven by their knowledge of the Kindred and often touched by experience, follow personal crusades against the Damned, although recent nights have seen these solitaries band together into organized cells. And of course, there will always be nosy reporters who find things that don't add up to their liking, or the detectives who insist on learning the truth behind a series of mysterious deaths. Laws of the Nigh

Most Kindred youth scoff at the notion of witch-hunters being able to scratch them, still giddy with their own power. Elders, however, recollect the nights when humanity's basilisk eye fell on them, and they fear such a return in an era of automatic weapons, a mortal population in the billions and weapons that not even a Kindred could survive. IN THESE NIGHTS...

The modern nights have seen a great deal of turmoil, and many Kindred fear that their world is about to turn over and reinvent itself, but none can say how that will happen or what will come of it.

One of the most disturbing developments has been the change in the Assamites. Somehow, the Children of Haqim have managed to release themselves from the Tremere curse that prohibited them from diablerie, and they have returned to their old cannibalistic ways. They kill without contracts or discretion to sect, and many claim that there is a marked change in the clan's general demeanor.

Cracks are appearing in the formerly monolithic Camarilla. The ranks of the anarchs swell with young vampires who see no future in a calcified society. The Gangrel's sudden departure from the fold sent ripples throughout the sect up to the Inner Circle. Even worse, the Camarilla has begun to lose ground in North America. Along the East Coast, a number of cities have either become contested territory or have fallen completely to the Sabbat. On the West Coast, incursions by the mysterious Asian vampires have caught the Camarilla in a very uncomfortable place. Some believe the Camarilla is a wounded animal in its death throes, but others know that a wounded animal is often the most dangerous..

The Sabbat has suffered its losses as well. In 1997, a mysterious incident wiped out the entire faction of Tremere antitribu, depriving the sect of its arcane resources. Just as mysteriously, the Malkavian antitribu communicated their Discipline of Dementation to their Camarilla brethren, and the Sabbat have lost another powerful tool. The Camarilla has not let go of its cities as easily as imagined, and many of the contested cities have become nightly struggles. The Sabbat majority likes to believe it has the upper hand, but much of its leadership fears that some of their oldest prophecies and worries are finally showing themselves.

LEXICON

A new existence calls for new words. Many young vampires often invent slang, while elders favor older forms; either usage dates a vampire's age with fair accuracy.

Ancilla A Kindred "adolescent", usually at least a century old.

Anarch-A rebel among the Kindred, one who disdains elders and their highly structured society.

Antediluvian A vampire of the Third Generation, so called because she predates the Great Flood.

Archon An agent of a justicar.

\-

Barrens, the-Areas of a city unfit for living, such as cemeteries, abandoned buildings, industrial wastelands and areas of urban blight.

Book of Nod, The-A collection of Kindred legends and history, which some Kindred equate with the Bible.

Beast, TheThe personification of the vampire's predatory nature, to which is attributed animal instincts and bloodlust.

Blood - A vampire's heritage; that which makes a vampire a vampire. Bloodline-A group of vampires that is an offshoot of its parent clan, often displaying particular characteristics or even strange powers.

Introduction

21

Blood Bond-A mystical power over another individual (mortal, Kindred or ghoul) created by drinking a vampire's blood three times.

Boon-A favor owed between vampires.

Cainite Any vampire; an older term.

Caitiff-A vampire without an identifiable clan or bloodline, usually of thin blood and very high generation; such vampires are scorned by others.

Camarilla, the A sect of vampires concerned primarily with maintaining the Traditions, particularly the Masquerade.

Cathayan-One of the mysterious vampires of Asia; very little is known about these vampires, but many believe they are unrelated to Kindred.

Childe - A vampire created through the Embrace; the progeny of her sire. Clan- A group of vampires who share common characteristics passed on by the Blood

Coterie - A group of Kindred who protect and support one another. Damned, The-A collective name for vampires.

Diablerie-The act of murdering another vampire by drinking both her blood and her spirit; considered the worst crime among vampires.

Disciplines-The powers of a vampire, such as strength, speed or supernatural senses, which come with the Embrace.

Domain-An area of a particular vampire's influence; her "turf." Elder-A vampire of at least three centuries or more.

Elysium-A place where vampires may meet without threat of violence to conduct business or discuss art; often held in places of art or culture.

Embrace, the The act of turning a mortal into a vampire.

Final Death-Destruction of a vampire.

Frenzy An emotional state where the Beast rises to the forefront, and the vampire reacts as an enraged animal would.

Generation - The number of steps that a vampire is removed from Caine. Gehenna The time when the Antediluvians will rise and devour their descendants before beginning a reign of darkness and terror; equated with the mortal Judgment Day.

Ghoul - A mortal who has drunk vampire blood, but has not been Embraced. Golconda-A fabled state of being to which many vampires aspire, wherein the predatory instincts of the Beast and the higher thoughts of the Man come to balance.

Haven - A vampire's home or where he sleeps during the day. Inconnu - A little-known sect composed entirely of elders.

Inquisition- A mortal organization based in the Catholic Church dedicated to hunting vampires and other supernatural creatures.

Justicar-A traveling judge of the Kindred who ensures that the Traditions are enforced.

Jyhad, the The secret, centuries-long war waged among the Antediluvian Kindred, using younger vampires as pawns.

Kindred Any Camarilla vampire; their name for themselves. Lick-A vampire; considered vulgar by many.

Lupine - A werewolf; used by vampires.

Laves of the Night

Masquerade, the The collective effort made after the advent of the Inquisition to hide the Kindred from mortal notice.

Methuselah-An elder vampire who no longer lives among other Kindred. Many Methuselahs are Inconnu.

Neonate-A young, newly created vampire, often recently released from her

sire's care.

Numina Special powers possessed by certain, gifted mortals.

Pack-The basic social unit of the Sabbat.

Prestation-The system of owing and granting favors; used as a bartering tool among Kindred.

Primogen-A city's ruling council of elders.

Prince-A vampire (male or female) who has established a claim of rulership over a city, and is able to support that claim.

Progeny-The collective offspring of a single vampire sire. Regnant-A vampire who holds a blood bond over another Kindred.

Retainers - Humans who serve a vampire master

Rites-Special Sabbat rituals performed for religious or other reasons.

Sabbat, the-A sect of vampires that believes the Masquerade to be useless and that vampires should revel in their darker natures. They are violent and often bestial, using horror and cruelty as their tools.

Sect-General name for one of the major groups among the Kindred, such as the Camarilla or the Sabbat.

Sire- The parent-creator of a vampire.

Thrall - A vampire who is blood bound to another.

Vaulderie A Sabbat ritual involving the communal sharing of blood. Vessel - A source of blood (past or potential); usually a human.

Vinculum - The communal blood bond within a pack, forged through Vaulderie.

Vitae - Blood.

MIND'S EYE THEATRE TERMS

Attribute-The raw potential of an individual, from social acumen to intellect to physical prowess.

Ability The things that a character knows or can do.

Challenge Any time that two opponents face off and throw Rock-Paper- Scissors to determine the outcome.

Extended Challenge - A challenge that continues until the tester loses. Health Level - A measure of how injured a character is.

Static Test- A challenge that requires someone to risk a certain number of Traits to complete a task.

Simple Test-Any time two opponents throw Rock-Paper-Scissors without risking Traits.

Scene A location where action is taking place.

Trait-An adjective used to describe a character's Attributes, such as Quick, Gorgeous or Knowledgeable.

Turn-A unit of time in Mind's Eye Theatre play, usually considered to be the equivalent of about three seconds.

Introduction

23

and

Elysium had closed without difficulty a few words played into the right cars, suddenly all of the movers and shakers knew that Warburton had chosen to square off politically against Donata. Subtle whispers and hurried deals had rippled through the

especially in light of Warburton's hurried exit midway through the evening, Now, though, it was back to business. That meant bringing Kevin back to heel, and finding out exactly what sorts of sweet little lies he'd told to flavor the equation,

room,

"Why can't we simply send someone else to scrape up the fool?" Peter had grumbled as Donata had directed him to drive into the bowels of the city's decaying downtown projects. Donata had scowled in response to Peter's complaints. "The fool only responds to my commands and my power. I must question him directly."

Peter simply shook his head as he passed the burned out wreckage of adandoned businesses. He could very well tear the information from the anarch's weak mind with the strength of his commanding will, but best not to let Donata know the full extent of his capabilities. In the back of his mind, he calculated expenses and possibilities involved in restoring business to the projects, tabulating any angle for profit out of habit.

"Wait here." Donata directed Peter to pull up to the curb, and he did so smoothly. setting the alarm on his car as they exited, as if it would do some good. A small gathering of youths loitered on the corner, and Kevin chatted in hushed tones among them.

Donata slid up the street, resplendently out of place in her debonair gown. approaching the group as

Peter staged a step or two behind. A few of the gang gave out hoots or whistles, and Kevin turned slightly to regard the approaching pair. With a quick slash of his hand. Kevin silenced the gang, breaking away in a swaggering gait to meet Peter and Donata. His various head wounds had healed probably from a little blood judiciously taken from the gangers and he grinned at Donata.

Gently touching Kevin's arm, Donata brought the full spark of her potent charisma to the fore. "How delightful to see you again, my dear. I presume that our assignments have proceeded well?"

Kevin nodded amicably. "Of course," he murmured, shooting a jealous look at Peter. "Warburton will look like an idiot, and a treacherous one at that. His cronies just happened to let Kristof get his hands on the package, and everyone knows how the Nosferatu like to sell out secrets." Kevin grinned. Even if the prince forbade the Nosferatu from selling

the financial information, he'd be able to be sure that the Nosferatu hadn't copied

never

and distributed it somehow and Warburton would bear the brunt of that wrath.

"Excellent." Peter said crisply, as Donata smiled. It appeared that the alliance would bear some

fruit, after all.

CHAPTER TWO THE CLANS

Tracing their lineage through millennia back to legendary founders, the families of vampires organize themselves along their lines as clans-vampires who share common heritage, abilities and weaknesses. Each clan claims descent from one of the near-mythical Antediluvians, the grandchilder of Caine and progenitors of the vampiric race. The predilections and curses of these Antediluvians, it is said, mark each member of the clans. As a result, the members of given clans often share similar tastes and potentials.

Further removed from the clans and Antediluvians are the bloodlines. While technically any lineage of vampires may be considered a bloodline, the term (in common parlance) refers specifically to members of a peculiar sub-clan, a grouping of vampires with common powers and interests like a clan but lacking an Antediluvian founder. These bloodlines are small and rare; indeed, few neonates are even aware of their existence. However, any clan can be humbled and brought to the level of mere bloodline should its Antediluvian be devoured and his power stolen by a claimant to a new clan-a process that has happened more than once in times past.

In nights of old, clans would only Embrace new members along fairly strict lines; only those with enough aptitudes and tastes corresponding to their prospec tive clans' predilections would be considered as candidates for unlife. The cosmopolitan modern age has changed this exclusivity, though, as it does to all things. Now vampires are Embraced along broader lines, and knowledge of a particular vampire's clan does not necessarily bring a corresponding knowledge of the individual's strengths, weaknesses and interests. Many young neonates, Em- braced for some potential outside of the clan's normal interests, rebel against the stultifying influence of the elders, taking up habits and alliances against all expectations of clan.

Occasionally, some new fledglings are abandoned by their sires, knowing little of the clans or the ways of vampiric society. These clanless, referred to as Caitiff, are often a threat to the Masquerade, and they rarely survive without instruction. Some vampires claim that such weak-blooded mules lack identifying clan charac- teristics and upbringing, and thus, they herald the coming End Times. These paranoid vampires hunt the clanless ones whenever they can.

BLOODRIGHTS

Carrying the strengths of the founders, each clan holds certain particular strengths and weaknesses. These characteristics pass from sire to childe; in some rare instances, these characteristics do not manifest fully, but most often, a childe holds the same potential as the sire (limited, of course, by weaker generation).

Bound together by blood, each member of a clan shares certain predilections. A vampire's clan dictates the Disciplines that come most naturally. Though the Curse of Caine bestows a wide range of capabilities, the specialized powers of vampires manifest in different propensities among the clans. Thus, each clan or bloodline has three signature Disciplines, powers that are most common among members of that line and that come more easily than others.

Conversely, each clan also passes on certain weaknesses and frailties to its childer. This effect may manifest as faults in personality, temperament or disposi- tion; in others, more mystical traits or even physical alterations appear. These weaknesses often tie to some apocryphal story of the clan's founder, usually of some failing or curse on that luminary.

Because clan members tend to be Embraced due to similarities in disposition and interest to the clan's areas of expertise, most vampires of a given clan share certain abilities or benefits. As a result, a vampire's clan also offers particular advantages that are common to all members. Even those individuals who are Embraced outside of a clan's normal range are instructed or assisted quickly in developing these benefits. It is always the choice of the individual whether or not to follow such direction.

ALLEGIANCES

The Camarilla and Sabbat claim the nearly exclusive membership of certain lineages. Among the Camarilla, the six clans of the Brujah, Malkavians, Nosferatu, Toreador, Tremere and Ventrue predominate. In the Sabbat, leadership and the bulk of membership is claimed by the Lasombra and the Tzimisce, though a good portion of the sect is made up of antitribu members of the other clans. The Assamites, Followers of Set, Gangrel, Giovanni and Ravnos are largely independent, with the majority of their individuals holding membership in neither sect.

Among the bloodlines, individual vampires are so scattered and rare as to make any sort of sectarian classification pointless, and allegiances break down to an individual basis. The elusive Cathayan vampires of Asia are not known to conform to any clan, either, and indeed, they do not even claim any relationship to Caine. What this disavowal bodes is unknown to western Kindred.

Laws of the Night

20

The Clans

27

THE CAMARILLA

Founded in the late Dark Ages to resist the fires of the Inquisition, the Camarilla relies on the Masquerade to hide vampires from humanity. As the largest global sect of vampires, the Camarilla offers prestige to the elders and security to the youth. In theory, all vampires are invited to join the Camarilla, but aside from a few expatriates and loners of other clans, only six clans have real membership. Among the member clans of the Camarilla, representation comes through a member of the Inner Circle and the appointment of a justicar. Other clans or bloodlines of vampires may nominally have members, even officers such as princes or primogen, but without an Inner Circle member and justicar, their true clout in the upper halls of the organization is limited.

THE SABBAT

o over

For centuries, the elders of Cainite society maintained a rigid status quo o their childer. The elders retained positions of power and influence, keeping the younger Cainites trapped in relative impotence and servitude. The formation of the Camarilla only exacerbated this relationship, as the elders banded together to support their own authority. Obviously, the existence of hordes of neonates, itching for advancement and giddy with their own vampiric power, created incredible friction between the generations. As the Dark Ages closed with the Renaissance and the newer, larger cities and populations of Europe, the number of younger, dissatisfied and educated vampires increased. Finally, matters came to a head in the Anarch Revolt, where hordes of the younger Cainites, fired by their mistreatment at the hands of their elders, rose up and destroyed the institutions of their society in wholesale rebellion.

Eventually, the Camarilla crushed the Anarch Revolt, the Convention of Thorns forming an uneasy truce between anarchs and Camarilla vampires. Still, many Cainites remained outcast due to their heinous crimes against the Camarilla, or retained a desire to overthrow the organization. Bolstered by early successes and the discovery of ancient Tzimisce rituals that bonded them together into unified packs, these vampires formed their own organization, the Sabbat. Though a thorn in the side of the Camarilla at first, the vampires of the Sabbat recruited dissatisfied younger Cainites in their war and overtook more territory and control.

In the modern age, the Sabbat stands in direct opposition to the Camarilla. Though only one-third the size of the Camarilla, the Sabbat makes great strides in taking territory, partly because it flouts the Traditions and partly because its fanatically motivated and loyal packs destroy the disorganized Camarilla individuals. Members of the Sabbat seek to overthrow the hold of the elders and, ultimately, the Antediluvians. The two pre-eminent clans of the Sabbat, the Lasombra and the Tzimisce, are held in great esteem among their sect for their successful destruction of their own Antediluvians. However, many vampires of other clans also ally with the Sabbat, becoming antitribu or "anti- tribes" in opposition to their original blood heritage. The Lasombra and Tzimisce are the most common clan members of the Sabbat, but a fair number of antitribu claim allegiance in the never-ending war to overthrow the elders, establish the rule of vampires over the kine and shatter the illusions of Cainites who hold on to their lost humanity.

Laws of the Night

28

THE INDEPENDENTS

The Camarilla claims the allegiance of six great clans, the Sabbat's core comes from two-but what of the other five? These other clans call no sect master, instead charting their own courses. For them, their own key philoso- phies, often intertwined with the mortal beliefs of their homelands, are the only guiding principles necessary.

For several hundred years, the Assamites, Followers of Set, Giovanni and Ravnos were the only four independent clans. Recently, though, the Gangrel left the Camarilla en masse, taking up a neutral position once more. Whether the Camarilla's shaky foundations will further erode, or whether a new clan will take the Gangrel's place, remains to be seen.

The Clans

BRUJAH

Malcontents,

punks, rebels and revolutionar- ies of all stripes make up the ranks of the Brujah. Though the Brujah are certainly a motley rabble with no unifying agenda behind their rebellious actions, they back their ideals with fiery passion matched by few other vampires. Their elders are philoso- phers and teachers, well-versed in debate and oratory. Their youth are often passion- ately idealistic, from gangbangers who despise "the Man" to hackers and social workers. Whatever the cause, a Brujah will defend it to the doorstep of Hell.

Elders tell of the days when the Brujah were revered as warrior-schol- ars and philosopher kings. In the e modern era, many Brujah band to- gether behind charismatic speakers and leaders of the clan, seeking to rebuild these lost times. Others simply follow for the opportunity to indulge in a little random violence. While the Rabble band together to tear down the stric- tures of society, they can agree only rarely on what should replace it. When the dust settles from their latest crusade, they disperse back to their disparate lifestyles. As a former clan of warriors, Brujah are often front and center of any force the Camarilla musters to defend its cities.

The stereotypical Brujah is seen as an armed- to-the-teeth leather-clad punk with dangerous hair and too many piercings. In fact, Brujah look however they damn well please - from the tweed suits of scholarly elders to grunge and everything in be- tween. Because Brujah are expected to be rebellious, many can get away with outrageous behavior that would not be tolerated among

other clans. Many use such underestimation to their advan-

tage to further their causes and surprise more shortsighted clans.

Laws of the Night

Roleplaying Hints: Revolution is your cause, passion your strength. You throw your heart and soul into anything that could help tear down the old, dead ways and make room for the new. Although you may just like chaos or tearing things down, chances are, you have some ideal that you want to see come to fruit, and this drive pushes you to engage in revolt. You use the skills available to you, whether you are a subtle creature manipulating courts and Kindred socially or a gangbanger punk who beats the opposition down mercilessly. When you join with your clan to change the status quo, other concerns drop aside. Once the revolution's over, though, you fight for your idea with the same ferocity, which may put you at odds with others who have different goals. It's about changing the world for something that you think is better-whether just for yourself, or for everyone.

Disciplines: Celerity, Potence, Presence

Advantage: As free-thinkers and rebels, all Brujah have some sort of contacts from their field of revolution, be it gang warfare or socio-political theory. Thus, all Brujah characters gain one free Trait in Political, University or Street Influence, and an associated Ability Trait of Politics, Academics or Streetwise.

As an aside, Brujah tend to stick together tightly when trouble erupts, and indeed, a "call to arms" draws Brujah together for common cause even in spite of personal differences. Failure to respond to such a call causes the offender to lose standing within the clan, and to be unable to gain help from other Brujah. However, if there are only three Brujah in a given city, this solidarity is obviously not such an obvious advantage

Disadvantage: The Brujah clan bears the scars of many insults and

oppres sions from the past. Thus, its members are easily prone to violence and frenzy. Indeed, among modern Brujah, even debate and discourse can become heated enough to incite rage. All Brujah suffer a one-Trait penalty on Virtue Tests of Self- Control/ Instinct.

Bloodlines: Brujah of any allegiance are functionally similar; there are no particularly special bloodlines of Brujah in any sect. Far and away, the largest amount of anarchs tend to be Brujah. Rare rumors of a secretive group calling themselves the "True Brujah" rise on occasion, but whether they are actually a separate bloodline or simply a group of deluded dissidents is unknown by the Cainite population at large.

The Clans

MaLkAvian

Dismissed as madmen and kooks, the clan of seers is alternately derided and feared. Every last member of the Malkavian clan is twisted in some fashion, rendered incurably insane by the power of the clan's blood. For some, this madness takes the form of hideous homicidal displays or outra- geous chaotic behavior; in others, a quiet, insidious bent makes its way through the vampire's thoughts. In all cases, the blood makes Malkavians unpredictable, poten- tially dangerous and absolutely free from the confines and expectations of normalcy.

No unifying purpose or goal binds the Malkavian clan, only a bond of shared mad- ness. Some revel in their insanity, others deny it, but they are all inevitably drawn together by their insight into a world altered by twisted perceptions. None can guess what Malkavians really see or think. Indeed, to do so is to invite the Lunatics to share their madness. Unbid- den, the Malkavians seek, to open the perceptions of others, using pranks, misdi- rection and chaos to force others into new viewpoints and to shatter accepted norms. Some vampires whisper that the Malkavians control the Jyhad sub- tly, that the war of ages is simply a great joke of their founder... and a few fear that the Malkavians are already laughing at the coming end.

The Lunatics Embrace seem- ingly at whim. Many members of the clan are insightful, some even brilliant. Any other categoriza- tions, aside from their common insanity, fail. A Malkavian usu- ally Embraces someone on the edge of insanity or one already driven

Laws of the Night

mad, but none can really say what might motivate a Lunatic to bring another into the fold. Some new childer are not insane when they are Embraced, but their sires seek to rectify this "shortcoming" as quickly as possible. A few are physically brutal, and some can be quite socially charming when not visibly afflicted, but these outlyers serve only to point up the commonality of the clan: Madness and enlightenment-can infect anyone.

Most Malkavians seem to have little care for sect politics, although those who do so are terrifying in their dogged pursuit of their aim. The true loyalties of the Malkavians likely lie with whatever greater goal drives their shared insight, though. Even the most chaotic Lunatics occasionally find themselves working in tandem at the most unusual of tasks.

Roleplaying Hints: You see and understand things that nobody else compre- hends. Maybe they're right when they say you're mad, but maybe it's just that they can't handle the truth\! You're not feeble, helpless or stupidly comical. You have a vision, and though it sometimes makes unlife difficult, you can look at things from directions that nobody else contemplates. You can sometimes get others to see brief moments of your vision by tricking their minds into thinking in strange ways, so you create plans designed to interrupt the "normalcy" of other peoples' existences, so that they are forced to examine their motives and places more carefully. You may have a lot of trouble with unlife, or you may be only subtly touched and pretty much functional in normal society-but you are always aware of the invisible pulse of currents underlying everything.

Disciplines: Auspex, Dementation, Obfuscate

Advantage: The Lunatics seem "blessed" with a special insight into the workings of the hidden world. Whether they discern small bits of knowledge from watching leaves fall or they work divination with human entrails, all of Malkavs's brood seem to follow hidden patterns that few others are even aware of. Because of this bizarre insight, all Malkavians gain a free level of Awareness.

Some Malkavians possess a strange link to others of their kind. Indeed, the Lunatics seem to be able to recognize one another on sight, and they even pass along bits of knowledge from time to time. This "madness network" may be the result of a true sharing of minds, or simply ranting none outside the clan really know, and few wish to explore the matter too deeply.

Disadvantage: The members of the Malkavian clan are universally insane. All Malkavian characters suffer from a derangement of some sort. These sorts of personality disorders are not humorous- they are cracks in the workings of the mind, turning the Malkavian into something beyond the comprehension of even vampires. A Malkavian is unlikely to regress to a childlike or clownish state, collecting teddy bears and silly clothing. A Malkavian who wears blood-stained pajamas and babbles in a room full of teddy bears covered in entrails, seeking wisdom from the charnel pit-that's the sort of insanity that infects the Lunatics.

A Malkavian's initial derangement can be temporarily suppressed with Willpower Traits like any other derangement, but it can never be removed or cured permanently.

Bloodlines: Most Malkavians claim nominal membership in the Camarilla, though antitribu are found in the Sabbat-the Freaks are usually the most deranged and homicidal of their kind. Some Malkavians of the Camarilla still possess the Discipline of Dominate (instead of Dementation), but most of the Lunatics were "converted" to the ways of Dementation in a wash of madness that swept through the clan in recent years.

The Clans

NOSFERATU

Hideous deformities and misshapen features are the hallmarks of the Nosferatu, vampires reshaped by the Curse of Caine. Though they (usually) remain aware and intelligent, all Nosferatu are physically altered in some way by the blood of the clan. Boils, growths, altered features, hairy spots, warts, odd skin colors, animal- istic features and even scales sprout on the faces and bodies of these wretches. Little wonder, then, that the Nosferatu prefer to congre

gate in sewers and caverns, away from

the judgmental eyes of others.

Whether the deformities of the Nosferatu hail from a curse placed on the line by Caine himself or from some other unwholesome source, the results are the same. As the Nosferatu cannot hope to interact with the rest of society, they must survive on their own, which they do with incredible skill. Shunned by everyone else, the Nosferatu gather in their own groups or avoid contact altogether. The out-

skirts of civilization and the refuse of society become their homes and

sustenance.

As the Nosferatu scurry through the secret byways and catacombs in which they lair, they unearth lost secrets and find hidden caches of knowledge. Indeed, with the incredible stealth engendered as a necessity of their condi- tion, they find it easy to spy on Kindred and kine alike in search of valuable bits of information. Spies and rumormongers of the first order, the Nosferatu parlay such information in exchange for favors, trad- ing with clanmates freely and treating with outsiders for services and boons. Some Nosferatu develop their powers of concealment well enough to eavesdrop unno- ticed in the middle of meetings of other Kindred, selling their secrets to the highest bidders. Woe unto the

Lases of the Night

outsider who seeks to turn a Nosferatu against his clan, though in their communal misery, the Nosferatu have forged strong ranks of loyalty. When the only ones to keep company with a monster are other monsters, they develop powerful bonds indeed.

\-

As outcasts, the Nosferatu often Embrace among those like themselves derelicts, vagrants, the antisocial, the wayward and unstable individuals in a commonality of social pariahs. Other victims include the beautiful and vain, or sociopaths and criminals, to whom the Nosferatu wish to teach a permanent and disfiguring lesson. Whatever the case, the Embrace often has a surprising effect. Aside from inflicting the deformities characteristic of the clan over the next few weeks, the abrupt and extreme changes often force the fledgling into an utterly new existence, one in which his clan is his only anchor. It's unsurprising, then, that recruits find themselves with friends and allies among those they would otherwise scorn.

The Nosferatu remain on the fringes of vampire society. The clan lacks any sort of overarching organization as a whole, but among themselves, the Nosferatu are unfailingly polite and well-versed in the pecking order. Outsiders may see nothing but a ragged band of deformed and pitiable creatures, but among their unearthed secrets and hidden tunnels, the Nosferatu hide far more influence and knowledge than the other clans would care to know....

Roleplaying Hints: Though you may appear hideous to others, you are no less a person for it. You may shun the trappings of your humanity like the visage you sloughed off during your Embrace, or you may seek to regain the feelings of mortality; either way, you are cursed with this form. Outsiders treat you with contempt, fear or hostility. Among others of your kind, though, you can be civil; after all, you are brothers in arms. Outsiders expect you to act like a crude, bestial monster, so you play up that stereotype for what it's worth, and you use your sophistication to learn the secrets that can be sold or put to good use. You have to take care of yourself since nobody else will now.

Disciplines: Animalism, Obfuscate, Potence

Advantage: All Nosferatu learn the ways of skulking and hiding, simply to avoid unwanted attention. With their signature command of a city's hidden byways, they discover lost hideaways and secrets. As a result, all Nosferatu have at least one Trait of Stealth at no cost and they also gain one Ability Trait of Survival

at no cost.

Disadvantage: The hideous countenance of the Nosferatu precludes ever holding normal social relationships without the use of concealment or misdirec- tion. No Nosferatu may possess the Social Traits Alluring, Gorgeous or Seductive without calling on special powers (such as the Obfuscate Discipline) to gain those Traits. Furthermore, all Nosferatu suffer from the Negative Social Traits Repugnant x 3 whenever their true forms are apparent. These Traits may never be removed with Experience Traits or Free Traits. A Nosferatu in his "normal" visage cannot initiate any Social Challenges except for the purposes of intimidation, although he may defend against Social Challenges normally.

Bloodlines: There are no distinctive bloodlines of Nosferatu; indeed, the Nosferatu antitribu of the Sabbat actually retain cordial (if distant) relations with their Camarilla counterparts. Some inside the clan maintain that there exists a line of monsters, Embraced by an ancient, which hunts the rest of the Nosferatu clan. These beasts, called the Nictuku, are considered mythical by most Nosferatu, but whenever a warren goes silent or a clanmate vanishes mysteriously, the fears return.

The Clans

TOREADOR

Artists, dilettantes and degenerates make up the ranks of the Toreador clan, a lineage ensconced in sensuality and experience. Whether patronizing the arts or creating works of their own, these vam- pires are rarely far from the pleasures of expression and beauty. Ultimately, though, whether for aes- thetics or indulgence, it is beauty that carries the

members of this clan.

Works of beauty and history are found among the holdings of the Toreador, and pieces of physical art are not the sole treasures of the clan. Toreador are as likely to work with music, song, literature, poetry, physical beauty or aesthetics as any other form of expression. Bitter infighting divides much of the clan regarding what constitutes "art," but all are united in their zeal to defend the ideals of art and beauty-

and sensuality

though

artistic expression. Some members of the clan do not possess any notable ar- tistic ability, but they support their clan's in- terests through their patronage and social graces. When a party, ball or showing is ar- ranged in Cainite society, it is most likely a Toreador orga- nizing the event, and it is certain that the clan will bring out its most glittering members in force. In cramped artists' studios or opulent manors, the Toreador surround themselves with the trappings with art in all forms, and carry that elegance wher ever they travel and meet. The common desire to indulge in the elevation of art draws the clan together. Even when sniping over matters of status and prestige, these vampires re-

Laws of the Night

30

spect the prowess of true creative genius. As the guardians of culture, the Toreador pass judgment on what victories constitute genius or what gaffes make a fool. Currying Toreador favor can do much to assist any career in Elysium.

Obviously, the Toreador are quick to Embrace those mortals with great artistic talents, the better to preserve those talents for all eternity. In some cases, members of the clan also Embrace from passion, and they are the most likely to Embrace for companion- ship. Though the Toreador are not uniformly beautiful, a disproportionate number are good-looking-works of physical art to some thinking.

Time, however, is often unkind to the Toreador. Many become jaded with the passing years, seeing works fall to ruins or mortal beauty crumble with age. Consequently, they seek greater thrills and experiences to whet their palates, often falling into hedonism and decadence. Most Kindred agree that few things are more disturbing than a Toreador needing a new hobby. Even worse is the Toreador who has become bored. Like decadent, pleasure-loving nobility, they snipe and disparage those who do not meet their exacting standards. For every hostess with the mostest or inspired artist, there is a catty preener whose only interest is destroying others.

Roleplaying Hints: You are a creature of eternal magnificence. You may have an artistic talent (or talents), or you may yourself be a work of art. Either way, it is your duty and your pleasure to raise awareness and culture through the spread of art, both its creation and its patronage. You want people to strive for higher ideals and to experience new heights of feeling due to art, so you encourage others to indulge in works of passion. After all, a great artist must be immersed in art.

Disciplines: Auspex, Celerity, Presence

Advantage: With their predilection for artistic skills, the Toreador all have some sort of unique talents. Even those Toreador who have no real artistic ability learn to become patrons of the arts, to engage in social sniping and to buy what they can't create. Every Toreador vampire begins with Academics, Crafts, Performance or Subterfuge Abilities (one Trait each of any two, or two Traits of one).

A Toreador can also call on artistic talents to hunt and feed. Though she may have a stable Herd like any other Cainite, a Toreador can also find willing mortal victims by use of artistic ability or patronage ("Would you like to come upstairs and see my etchings?"). A Toreador can gain one Blood Trait for each level possessed in the aforementioned Abilities; each Blood Trait gained in this fashion requires 15 minutes out of play. Gaining Blood Traits in this fashion does use up the Abilities in question, so the Toreador may be limited in her feeding if she has already used some of her Abilities.

Disadvantage: The Toreador are easily entranced by beauty. Every work of art is a key to insight, whether in the form of sculpture, poetry, a lovely face, even a clear sky spangled with stars. As such, beauty draws the attention of Toreador, often to the exclusion of all else. When presented with a work of great art (generally, one executed with the equivalent of three levels of Crafts or Performance Traits, though some special cases may require more or less), a Toreador becomes absorbed in the task of examining and understanding the work, lost in a fugue state. The Toreador can only break from this state willingly by expending a Mental Trait, although injury or other distractions (such as attack or being elbowed by a neighbor) can break this enthrallment.

Bloodlines: The Toreador clan has no offshoot bloodlines; the antitribu of the Sabbat share the predilections and capabilities of their Camarilla brethren, although they find their pleasure and artistic expression in horror as much as beauty. These antitribu, instead of becoming paralyzed with fascination, instead have a disturbing tendency to act out their sociopathic tendencies on whomever is at hand through socially cutting remarks, intellectual dominance or physical torture. A Toreador antitribu given a chance to act out such tendencies must expend a Mental Trait if the player wishes to resist the urge, though such an expenditure need only be made once in any given scene.

The Clans

TREMERE

Once a cabal of mortal wizards, the Tremere supposedly wrested the secrets of vampirism through their own arcane studies in a covert war during the Dark Ages. With their stolen birthright, they carved a place for themselves in vampiric society, hunting down and extinguishing an ancient of another lost bloodline in order to gain legitimacy while refining their own potent magics with their new unliving powers. Tightly bound by common studies of the arcane and the mistrust of other clans, the Warlocks are mysterious, distrusted and feared

and that's just how they like it.

Though not all Tremere had mystical leanings in life, the ritualistic structure of the

clan brings all recruits into a

rigid hierarchy in death. Occult practices from the Dark Ages shape

many of the clan's ways, while secret orders

of initiation mark rites of passage in the clan's ranks. The clan itself is divided into circles of ranking, moving from apprentices (who carry out the day-to- day tasks of the clan) to regents (who oversee clan affairs in a city) to lords (who exercise dominion over a particular region) to pontifexes (whose rule extends to all Tremere activities within a large geographic area) to, ultimately, the fabled Council of Seven (whose members each oversee a continent). Initiates strive diligently to outperform their peers in order to rise in rank, yet maintain a rigid code of loyalty to clan and Camarilla (in that order). This chain of command pro- motes ambition while making the Tremere more insular and structured than any other Camarilla clan.

Among the ranks of the Tremere are Freemasons, mystics, witches, New Agers and antiquarians. The clan does not draw from practitioners of the arcane exclusively, though. Politicians, financiers, scientists and soldiers can all be found among the ranks of the clan. Self-discipline, a keen mind and a will to power are qualities inherent to the prospective neonate. Loyalty to the clan and knowl- edge of the occult can be instilled later.

Because of their stolen blood and their hidden secrets of magic (so secretive that other vampires

Laws of the Night

38

whisper rumors of Tremere assassins who hunt and slay vampires learning Thaumaturgy outside the auspices of the clan), the Tremere occupy an uncertain place within the Camarilla. Their prowess grants them grudging respect, but it is no secret that any Tremere advances the clan's agenda first and foremost. As a result, most Tremere are superlative manipulators. Vampires of this clan barter their impressive magical skills for favors, calling in debts later to consolidate the clan's claims to specific political goals and mystical treasures. Their magical powers allow them to counter the actions of the Camarilla's many enemies, yet they grant an unpredictable edge over their allies at the same time. The Tremere exert an insidious influence over vampire society from their chantries (part stronghold, part academy), directing crusades and research to their own occult ends.

Roleplaying Hints: You have taken an oath to uphold the goals of clan and Camarilla. You hail from a distinguished house of wizards, and in return for your dutiful service, you can expect instruction in the mystic arts. You obey the laws of Kindred society unswervingly, but you always work to advance the interests of your clan first. Since unknown abilities cannot be opposed, you conceal the true measure of your own power and your clan's knowledge, acting when appropriate and before others can fathom your plans. You possess a strong will, capable of undertaking difficult tasks in order to succeed. Other vampires may not understand or trust you, and that's just fine-you have other plans.

Disciplines: Auspex, Dominate, Thaumaturgy

Advantage: As a result of their training in the mystical arts, all Tremere gain one Occult Ability and one Occult Influence automatically. This bonus represents their basic knowledge of magical practices and their clan's contacts within arcane circles.

Because of the tightly knit structure of the clan, Tremere can expect assistance and instruction from higher-ranking members of the clan. However, members must still perform their duties. Tremere cannot simply expect all of their problems to be solved by their superiors- the clan does not tolerate laggards. Tremere vampires can expect that any Mentor they may have will always offer assistance (if the Storyteller rules that doing so is within the Mentor's capabilities), but conversely, they will always be required to fulfill a specific duty afterward.

Disadvantage: On receiving the Embrace, all new Tremere are forced to drink from a chalice containing the blood of seven elders of the clan. From this mixture of blood, the neonate comes one step toward a blood bond to the elders and, through them, to the clan as a whole. Tremere who fail in their duties or who disobey orders may be forced to drink again of such a mixture, stepping closer to total obedience to the clan.

Tremere who fail to report to their superiors, or who do not successfully carry out their duties, can also expect their superiors to deal with them harshly. Members of the clan who do not pull their own weight quickly find that they are expendable. Bloodlines: At one time, a small faction of antitribu claimed membership within the Sabbat. However, a recent turn of the Jyhad has seen to the extermi- nation of all of those expatriates, with no survivors whatsoever. Also, during the Dark Ages, a small group of Lithuanian pagans formed several cults. These Telyavelic Tremere possessed the Discipline of Presence instead of Dominate, but they suffered mightily from displays of Christian faith. These pagans were finally exterminated before the 17th century. With the rigid structure of the Tremere clan, there is no room for the deviance of any other bloodlines.

The Clans

39

Ventrue

While the other clans play at games of status or rebellion, the Ventrue take up the mantle of leadership and guide Cainite society itself. Nobility, sophistication and duty are the hallmarks of this clan. Rulership is a difficult burden indeed, but the Ventrue know themselves equal to the task. Alternately derided and respected, the Ventrue are the framework on which the Camarilla rests.

The responsibilities and privileges of authority are assumed by vampires of the Ventrue clan. Power belongs to those who can wield it, and so the Ventrue accumulate prestige, influence and wealth. In order to defend against the plots of subtle foes, the vampires of this clan call on their associates to form staunch allegiances.

The responsibilities and privileges of au- thority are assumed by vampires of the Ventrue clan. Power belongs to those who can wield it, and so the Ventrue accumulate prestige, influence and wealth. In order to defend against the plots of subtle foes, the vampires of this clan call on their associates to form staunch allegiances.

When seeking mortal allies and compatriots, the Ventrue look to the cream of the crop. Those who rise to heights of prowess through talent, hard work and noble character are the foremost recruits among the Ventrue. Of course, among the older members of the clan, blood will tell; scions of wealthy and noble families are often inducted, with the expectation that their rarefied lineage provides insight and potential beyond that of commoners.

As the rulers of the Camarilla, the Ven- ture hold a noblesse oblige, a duty and responsibility to lead and protect. Members of the clan use their political savvy and influential powers to sway Kindred and mortal politics alike, bringing prosperity to vampires and protecting the

Lases of the Night

society of the undead from discovery. Thus, Ventrue naturally gravitate toward positions of power and authority, or attempt to do so. Even those Ventrue who join the Sabbat take their duties as protectors of Cainite society very seriously, serving as dark crusaders of a holy cause. Of course, since the Ventrue cannot let other clans know the hidden secrets and burdens that they carry in the war to defend all vampires, they must assume the burdens of leadership alone. However, they are certain to drop hints about the burdensome task.

Roleplaying Hints: You are among the elite nobility of Kindred society. Above mortal or even petty Cainite concerns, you bear the right and responsibility of leadership. You have a firm respect for tradition, for the ways that have worked for hundreds of years; even the most rebellious youth understands the power of tradition. No other vampires have the necessary talents or capabilities to take on the burden of guiding Cainite society. Thus, it is up to you to take up that mantle. You lead not necessarily out of desire or habit (though such factors may figure in), but because your clan has gifted you with the duty to assume responsibility. All that is done must advance the sect, for the sect will protect the weaker ones. Your conviction is your armor, your honor a shield, your birthright your weapon. Honed to perfection, you uphold all that is noble, ordered, ancient and wise in the children of Caine.

Disciplines: Dominate, Fortitude, Presence

Advantage: Because of their keen financial acumen and savvy, all Ventrue characters begin play with an extra Trait of the Resources Background that can never be lost permanently. All Ventrue additionally gain one Trait of Finance, High Society or Political Influence (player's choice) due to their connections to society and social manipulation. Even those Ventrue without such ties themselves may call on their clanmates for the appropriate aid, effectively granting them the same capabilities.

Ventrue tend to keep detailed records of lineage and heritage. As a result, the Ventrue clan, though not as hierarchical as the Tremere, can prove difficult to infiltrate; nearly every Ventrue is recorded somewhere in the clan's family trees. Though it may take several months to track down a particular lineage, a Ventrue can usually contact others of his clan and discover the sire, grandsire and so on of a particular Ventrue claimant, thus establishing "credentials" of a sort.

Disadvantage: All Ventrue have rarefied tastes, to the point of excluding all other prey except their chosen taste. Ventrue may only feed from mortal blood meeting with their particular dietary restriction. A given Ventrue might be able to feed only from young women or from businessmen or perhaps only from those experiencing terror. A Ventrue reflexively regurgitates any blood taken from any other source, gaining no nourishment. This restriction does not apply to vampiric vitae, though, and it may be suppressed long enough for a Ventrue to Embrace a new childe.

Because of their restrictions on feeding, Ventrue typically come into play each game session with one Blood Trait less than other vampires (though this shortage can be ameliorated with the Herd Background, as usual).

Bloodlines: The Ventrue antitribu are crusaders who lead in the holy war of the sect, feeling that the others of their blood have failed in their mission to protect Cainites from the machinations of the Antediluvians. Despite differences of philoso- phy, though, Ventrue of the Camarilla and the Sabbat are functionally similar; antitribu are the true dark knights of their kind. There are no distinctive bloodlines of Ventrue, though some family lines do form "dynasties" within the clan.

The Clans

LASOMBRA

Master manipulators, influence brokers and scions of hidden power-the Lasombra, as their moniker implies, ply the Jyhad as a vicious game from the comfortable obscurity of darkness and misdirec- tion. Raised from the Spanish and Italian upper class, the Lasombra exercised their influence over the Church and nobility of the Dark Ages, turning mortal rulers to their whims and bend- ing entire societies to their service. This practice continues unabated as the Lasombra bow to no other clan, instead leading the Sabbat with keen, cultured sensibilities and ruthless efficiency.

In elder days, the Lasombra were considered an honorable and impressive clan, possessed of strong character. None underestimated their skill at diplomacy or intrigue, of course, but as a whole, they exerted a powerful hierarchy from elder courts to younger students. During the Anarch Revolt, though, many young Lasombra rebelled against their controlling sires, seeking to lead their own unlives instead of existing in eternal servitude as pawns. After decades of warfare, a Methuselah of the clan betrayed their Antediluvian, and that ancient was supposedly slain. Now, the Lasombra are free of their Antediluvian's control, free to exercise their whims as they see fit and free to rule the Sabbat in its quest to liberate all other Cainites from the thrall of the elders. Naturally, their superior knowledge in this matter grants them the right to lead the other clans in this war.

Among the clans of the Sabbat, the Lasombra are treated with respect and reverence; many posi- tions of authority and influence are held by the Keepers. For destroying their Antediluvian, the Lasombra are accorded honor second only to the Tzimisce. For serving the Sabbat loyally, they are granted service in turn. Though suspicion follows many Lasombra motives, the Lasombra deal with the other clans through strength and cunning. Even in the Camarilla, the Lasombra are considered urbane and dangerous. A Cainite dealing with a Lasombra shows the utmost consideration, despite any thoughts

Laws of the Night

42

of spite or treason-an attitude that the Keepers return in kind. After all, one can never tell who dances on the puppeteers' strings.

As befits their heritage, the Lasombra choose their potential childer from strong-willed mortals, selecting those with courage, cleverness and a talent for manipulation. Artistic skill, specialized knowledge and physical prowess are all secondary considerations compared to the will to power necessary to be a true Lasombra. The Lasombra recruit must have the confidence and authority to master himself and others. Naturally, these conflicting inner drives lead to friction between sire and childe as the fledglings refuse to bow to the potent wills of their sires, but the Lasombra wouldn't have it any other way-through conflict comes strength, and to the victor go the spoils.

Roleplaying Hints: You shape the world to your desire. By leading those around you and influencing the keys of power, you can achieve your own goals, whatever they are. When social acumen is required, you can be silver-tongued or threatening; your insight into motives allows you to discern what others want and how to use them. If force is necessary, though, you don't hesitate to use it (though the necessity of force generally means that something went wrong along the way). Sophistication, confidence and knowledge are the means to power, but power in and of itself is not your end. Power is simply the means to achieve your true desires, the ends that you set for yourself.

Disciplines: Dominate, Obtenebration, Potence

Advantage: A long heritage of influence and manipulation makes the Lasombra puppeteers par excellence. During the Dark Ages, the Lasombra exercised subtle authority within the Church and over secular rulers; in the modern age, these old habits die hard, even among the more rebellious elements of the clan. All Lasombra gain one Trait of Church, Political or Underworld Influence.

As founders of the Sabbat, the Lasombra are respected for their destruction of their Antediluvian, and they hold positions of leadership and power. All Lasombra automatically gain one free Status Trait.

Disadvantage: Mirrors and reflective surfaces do not show any trace of the Lasombra. Some say that this oddity occurs because the Lasombra have no souls; others claim that it is part and parcel of their Obtenebration Discipline. Whatever the cause, Lasombra (and their clothes and carried possessions) do not show up in any sort of reflective surface, such as mirrors, pools of water, reflective windows, polished metals, photographs and black-and-white film (which uses a reflecting silver emulsifier).

Also, because of the Lasombra clan's ties to darkness, all Lasombra suffer an additional level of damage from exposure to sunlight.

Bloodlines: A small number of Lasombra - about a hundred - claim allegiance with the Camarilla, calling themselves Lasombra antitribu. Most of these Lasombra are old and potent, from days before the formation of either sect. The few modern ones still have the backing of their powerful sires. These Lasombra are all accorded respect within the Camarilla, so they keep their usual clan advantages but within their sect. The Sabbat Lasombra denounce the existence of their wayward brethren, and they hunt the traitors mercilessly whenever the opportunity presents itself.

The Clans

(43)

Tzimisce

Potent sorceries, crumbling castles, forbidding mountains, villages of huddled and fearful peasants these images play through the history of the Tzimisce. The scholarly Fiends trace their roots to the demesnes of Eastern Europe, where they ruled as feudal lords over a superstitious populace (and, in some places, they still do, it is whis- pered). Even in the modern day, anachronistic behavior and un- common occult insight are hallmarks of the Tzimisce. Once the pre-eminent sorcerers of Cainite society, they now serve the Sabbat as terrifying, alien creatures that epitomize the traditional characteristics of vampires. The

great Vlad

Dracul him-

self is said to

be one of the Tzimisce,

though in the Sabbat, he

is counted a traitor to the clan.

The Tzimisce have existed since time immemorial, ruling for generations in the fiefs and provinces of Eastern Europe. There, they extended their tal- oned hands over the mortal villages and authorities, brooking no resis tance. Their broods of blood-bound childer exacted fearsome tribute, while the koldun sorcerers per- formed hideous rites, calling on the black-stained power of the twisted lands. With the coming of the Anarch Revolt, legions of childer broke away from their domineering masters, putting castles and elders to the torch. The mystical ritual of the Vaulderie, corrupted from koldun rites, broke the blood bonds and sent childer screaming as bands of terror ravaging the landscape. At last, the

44

anarchs destroyed the Tzimisce Antediluvian, and together with the Lasombra, the remain- ing Fiends formed the core of the Sabbat. The few sur- viving voivodes and koldin shut themselves away in their castles, avoiding the strife and closeting them- selves in an earlier age. Now, the Fiends' influ- ence in the Sabbat is second only to the Lasombra clan's, and many believe that the Tzimisce manipulate the

Lasombra as well.

Few can under- stand the motives of the Tzimisce. Many

are insane or sim- ply alien to

human or

vampiric

minds.

Uninterested in secular power yet wrathful and deadly when balked, incredibly intelligent but unwilling to grasp the modern age, by turns courtly and torturous, the Tzimisce are a study in contrasts- yet the Fiends themselves admit to no dichotomy. Other vampires treat the Trimisce with a guarded sort of re- spect. The Fiends take the greatest insult when their domains are tres- passed, yet they hoard insights that the other clans have long since lost. Once angered, a Tzimisce never fails to exact retribution. To their allies, they seem erratic, yet their knowledge is useful and their minions are potent in battle. Suffice to say that few would want Tzimisce "friends," and none would want Tzimisce enemies.

In keeping with their bizarre predi- lections, the Tzimisce Embrace from an eclectic selection of mortals. The insane

are sometimes chosen, but most often the Fiends choose those whose minds were broken by some terrible insight. More often, the Tzimisce Embrace those strong wills who were twisted but unbowed by unusual knowledge, whether scientists, magicians or philosophers. In some cases, the Tzimisce will Embrace their revenant relatives or mortal minions as a gift or reward for devoted service. Though the Embrace does not alter the fledgling Tzimisce physically, it exacts its price on the mind; few Tzimisce have the capacity to empathize with their former mortal days, while more than a few pick up disturbing new habits, sharper tempers and more territorial natures.

Roleplaying Hints: Existence is a process of learning and evolution. You have evolved beyond simple humanity, and through further work and study, you can evolve past the vampire condition, too. However, all of your work is still built fundamentally on the blocks that you have already laid. The ways of the past, those which have stood for centuries, have withstood the test of time and shown themselves correct. Therefore you mix anachronistic tradition with bizarre speculation and thought. If other Cainites do not understand you, that is their own problem; they have not reached your level of insight. You act with the elegance and politeness of a higher creature, but by the same token, you do not brook failure-you are a superior being, after all.

Disciplines: Animalism, Auspex, Vicissitude

Advantage: Because of their feudal heritage and ancient ways, the Fiends keep secrets long since thought lost by the other clans. All Tzimisce start with one free Ability Trait of Occult, and they can also purchase Lore Abilities with greater ease than most /vampires at Storyteller discretion, the Fiends may learn the first two levels of any Lore Ability without the need for extensive work or specialized resources, since the clan's libraries and holdings usually include such knowledge.

Trimisce may have revenants as Retainers. A revenant Retainer can be treated like a ghoul, except that the revenant does not require regular upkeep with vitae. More detailed descriptions of revenants and their unusual families and powers can be found in other books, such as Ghouls: Fatal Addiction and Liber des Goules.

Disadvantage: The warped Carpathian Fiends exhibit some inexplicable tie to the lands of their birth. Whether this tie is a result of the ancient demonic pacts levied there in the Dark Ages, or a result of their bodies' craving for stability in response to their mutable Discipline of Vicissitude, the results are the same. A Tzimisce must sleep within at least two handfuls of soil from his grave or his native homeland. Each day that a Tzimisce fails to get such rest, he suffers a one-Trait penalty on all challenges. These penalty Traits are removed on a one-for-one basis as the Trimisce regains rest in a safe haven with the appropriate earth. For this reason, many Trimisce keep multiple havens, and they are loath to travel. A Tzimisce whose haven is compromised is in dire straits indeed.

Bloodlines: Many Tzimisce come from the revenant families, ancient lines of mortals transformed into ghoulish creatures through centuries of ingestion of vampiric vitae. The Bratovich Tzimisce hail from a family known for its brutality and animalistic tendencies; they learn Potence instead of Auspex, but they suffer a one-Trait penalty on their Self-Control/ Instinct tests against frenzy. Also, the Tzimisce claimed a heritage as sorcerers unparalleled among vampires until the eminence of the Tremere clan. These ancient sorcerers called themselves koldun, and some young Tzimisce take this title while studying the more modern magics of Thaumaturgy instead of Vicissitude. The modern koldun endure a one-Trait penalty when defending against opposing magic, though, since they must attune themselves to magical energies in order to learn Thaumaturgy.

Almost no Tzimisce are found in the Camarilla - the Fiends' distaste for the humanistic trappings of that organization is tremendous. Any Tzimisce who works with the Camarilla does so merely to further a particular personal agenda. More often, a Tzimisce without Sabbat leanings simply remains a cloistered independent.

The Clans

45

Assonvite

From hidden fortresses in the Middle East, the Assamites emerge as the silent stalkers of other Cainites. Secretive, insular and fanatically loyal to the precepts of their clan, the Assamites claim to be descendants of Haqim (Assam), who is said to fight against Khayyin (Caine) and his curse. As a result, the Assamites seek to convert or slay other Cainites, attempting to purge the foul curse of Khayyin and bring honor to Haqim's cause of justice. Needless to say, such pursuits- including hunting other Cainites for blood, and engaging in diablerie in attempts to strengthen their clan and their closeness to Haqim-are not popular with the other clans.

Due to their attacks on elders of the other clans in the Dark Ages and their assistance of the rebels during the Anarch Revolt, the Assamites were fought by the Camarilla and forced into capitulation. With their home fortress of Alamut compromised and peace enforced on them, they were subjected to a great curse by the Tremere. Through this curse, the Assamites were rendered unable to drink Kindred vitae, making it impossible for them to commit diablerie. Recently, though, the curse was broken (speculations have been rampant and none confirmed), and every Assamite across the globe awakened to dis- cover a renewed thirst for the potent vitae of other Kindred. Though this development is not known publicly (because some Assamites, all antitribu, refused to submit to the curse and thus retained this ability), the Assamites are hoarding their secret, striking where they can to eliminate threats and draw on their returned strength.

The Assamite clan has undergone much upheaval recently, and not only due to the overturning of the Tremere curse. While previously young Assamites would take out contracts for the assassination of other Kindred and collect blood tithes as fees, now the Assamites hunt and kill without any sort of contracts, codes or strictures. In addition, the clan has moved away from its former Islamic ties, instead looking to more ancient gods. With these changes have come the awakenings of lost powers and the resurgence of the clan's physical and political clout. Where once the Assamites were seen as honorable and contract-bound (and thus useful tools), they are now silent terrors that plague elders of every clan and sect.

In older times, Assamites Embraced primarily males, those of Middle Eastern descent and strong faith. In modern days, women also fill the ranks and even a few Westermers have been brought in. Skill now plays more of a role in selection than heritage; prospective clan members are Embraced from those with a penchant for the hunt or kill-assassins, mercenaries, terrorists and gang warriors of any descent. Recruits are expected to undertake rigorous training, and they are indoctrinated in many of the clan's precepts and history. These fida'i (apprentices) are watched closely, but they are allowed to progress based on their own worth and skill. Many fida'irun in small packs called falaqi, hunting other Cainites for blood and practice.

Laws of the Night

(40)

Roleplaying Hints: You are a predator who preys on others of your kind. The cursed Get of Khayyin must be swayed from their path of bickering madness or be destroyed before they destroy all else. Your cause is just, and though you may not enjoy your tasks, you do your duty. You may be humorous, angry or withdrawn, but you go about your work professionally. Only by drawing on the strength of Haqim can the corrupted Kindred be fought, so you must steal their power and make sure that the clan is ready when Gehenna arrives. Khayyin was debased and had neither honor nor soul. His children share the same flaws, so they must be saved or destroyed, so that the powers of the blood are used only by the dutiful. The elders of the clan direct how to fight so that Gehenna may be survived. By following their commands and working within the strictures of the clan, you may hope to achieve some small piece of that battle.

Disciplines: Celerity, Obfuscate, Quietus

Advantage: Assamites are trained killers, and they are all subjected to a lengthy process of apprenticeship before the Embrace. Even those hurriedly Embraced for some reason have at least a modicum of training or skill. As a result, all Assamite characters gain one Melee Ability and one Brawl Ability at no cost during character generation.

At the Storyteller's option, Assamites may be able to access weapons and equipment through their clan. Players of Assamites should not use this benefit as a replacement for the proper Mentor and Influence Backgrounds- the clan doesn't reward those who rest on their laurels at the clan's expense-but a competent assassin who needs a little specialized help may be able to garner some additional tools from the clan's stores.

Disadvantage: With the lifting of the Tremere curse comes a renewed thirst for blood All Assamites suffer from a hunger for vampiric vitae, one that cannot be easily controlled. Once an Assamite has tasted the blood of a particular vampire, she may become addicted to it-the player must make a Self Control/ Instinct Virtue Test with a difficulty of four Traits, or the Assamite acquires a taste for the Kindred's blood. When encountering the same Kindred later, the character's player must succeed on a Self-Control Instinct Test or fly into a frenzy, attempting to devour the other Cainite. Even if the Assamite retains control, the lust for blood is immediate and evident, and it should be roleplayed accordingly.

Bloodlines: Assamites generally hold allegiance only to their own clan. A few exist in the Camarilla, as loners who broke from the clan; the Sabbat also claims antitribu, who differ from the rest of the clan only in that they never allowed themselves to be subjected to the (now- defunct) Tremere curse. In the Assamite homelands and fortresses exists a line of viziers who research blood magic and the nature of vampirism. Assamite vizier researchers gain Thaumaturgy as a Discipline instead of Celerity, but they must expend an additional Blood Trait on all uses of Thaumaturgy (in addition to their weakness for Kindred vitae), as their control of blood magic is not as refined as the Tremere's. This flaw comes in the viziers' magical practices; should another Cainite somehow learn Thaumaturgy from a vizier, all effects of the Discipline would be similarly difficult to cast, with the increased blood cost. Viziers also gain one Occult Ability Trait in place of either the free Melee or Brawl Trait (player's choice as to which).

ASSAMITES OF EARLIER DAYS

After the Treaty of Tyre but before the breaking of the Tremere curse, the Assamites suffered from a different set of problems. The Assamites were unable to consume Kindred blood indeed, each Trait of Cainite vitae (other than the Assamite's own blood) ingested or otherwise introduced into the Assamite's system inflicted one health level of damage. Furthermore, since the only means of lowering generation was through certain alchemical blood potions (diablerie having been rendered impossible by the curse), Assamites would hire themselves out on contracts to assassinate other Cainites, accepting blood as payment (and sending a tenth of all such blood earned to their elders as a tithe). Should the target manage to escape the Assamite, he would never be targeted again-until now, when the clan's members cast aside their former strictures of honor and obligation in favor of their former bloodthirst.

The Clans

Followers of Set

The desert sands of Africa hold many secrets long buried, some best left undisturbed. Claiming literal de- scent from the dark Egyptian god Set, the Setites hoard the secrets of their lost civilizations. According to the Setites, Set himself will rise-soon-and he will reward his faithful while plunging the world into eternal night. Organized more like a cult than a clan, the Followers eagerly search for the mystic means to rouse Set, while they simultaneously spin webs of deceit and fixation to sway others to their service. Needless to say, the Setites are regarded with wariness at best and horror at worst.

Vague and o

nd contradictory rumors surround the Ser- pents' origin. Most Cainites hold that the Serpents are simply another branch of Caine's tree, from the far- wandering days of the Antediluvians and their mythical sires. For their part, the Followers of Set often insist that Set himself was no mere Cainite, but a true god of darkness. Such wild stories are discounted by most vampires, though the Serpents seem to hold bits of lore and wisdom from lost days that would legitimize their

claims....

With respect to the other clans, the Setites are carefully neutral. During the formation of the Camarilla, it is said, the Setites were invited to join, but few deigned to do so-much to the secret relief of that sect's elders. As far as the Serpents are concerned, the Jyhad is just a petty struggle between the upstart children of Set's inferiors. The Setites thus broker their influence carefully, trading in commodities and vices that make them valuable, if covert, suppliers for many Kindred. Where a particular vampire has a weakness or desire, the Setites quickly move in to fill the vacuum, indebting the buyer to them and sometimes exacting favors through blackmail and addiction. Such tactics naturally don't endear the Setites to the other clans, so most Serpents make a great show of dissembling and an outward display of friendship. Of all the

clans, the Setites reserve their greatest hate for their own kind: The Serpents of the Light, a small cult of Haitian Setites who broke away from the clan to join the Sabbat, are viewed as heretics and wiped out ruthlessly. Setites tend to Embrace from among people who share an understanding of dark appetites and forbidden desire. Scholarship is highly prized in the clan, for only with the

Laws of the Night

(48

ancient lore of the earliest days can Set be found and awakened. Secrets of all manner are their stock in trade, and the vices that humiliate others are their best weapon. Those who partake of desire are naturally inclined to understand it, and so they form the basis of the clan's recruits. With time and education, Setites learn to weave webs of subtle deceit, drawing in ever more unwitting servants while plucking out the dirty secrets and lies that others try so carefully to bury.

Roleplaying Hints: You are a disciple of a dark god, and you must do your best to uphold that faith. None outside your clan will serve Set willingly, so it is your duty to ensnare them with their own weaknesses. By plying the illicit trades to support the hungers of others, you can gather their support and force them to pay for their needs in deeds, in secrets or simply in "a few favors later." With such secrets and assistance, you can gather the knowledge necessary to raise Set, to enshroud the world in the darkness of your clan's grip and to cause all others, vampire or mortal, to bow before you.

Disciplines: Obfuscate, Presence, Serpentis

Advantage: The Followers of Set choose recruits with connections in the underworld, crime and politics. By preying on the weaknesses of influential and important individuals, the Setites turn them into allies, willing or otherwise. Every Setite thus has one bonus Streetwise Ability Trait and a level of Political, Street or Underworld Influence. The rare Followers who eschew such connections can still gather a modicum of aid from their clanmates, equivalent to the same Traits. The Setite philosophy, though Darwinian, stresses the need for the clan to cooperate in raising Set, so resources are shared (albeit begrudgingly).

Disadvantage: Just as Set was banished from Egypt into the darkness, so too do his followers hide in the shadows and the night. Setites are particularly sensitive to light, especially sunlight. Exposure to sunlight always inflicts an extra health level of damage on Setites. Even bright spotlights, flares or floodlights are uncomfortable, causing the Setite to suffer a one-Trait penalty on all challenges.

Bloodlines: Among the Followers, different philosophies divide the clan into sects that practice disparate methods of serving Set. Most Setites espouse the Path of Typhon, seeking occult knowledge to raise Set from his age-long sleep. A few work as martial students in Set's army; these "Serpent Warriors" study Potence instead of Obfuscate. Some Ecstatics indulge themselves in the pleasures of debauchery, and a small, heretical splinter sect affiliated more with voudoun than Egyptology, called the Serpents of the Light, claims allegiance with the Sabbat.

The Clans

49\)

Gangrel

From the frozen northlands, the thick forests and icy mountains, the lands of vicious beasts and monsters come the Gangrel. By turns animalistic and insightful, they embody the most fearsome predators among vampires. From their kind come the tales of such horrors as Grendel and the Norse berserkers. The undisputed masters of the wild ways, the Gangrel are feared and respected for their unmatched prowess in survival. Some, it is whispered, even hunt or deal with the dread Lupines; certainly, their clan's shape-shifting powers and animal features bring to mind legends of dire wolves.

The history of the Gangrel is disputed. Some claim that they are descended from the same line as the Ravnos, while others insist that they are a separate clan (and, indeed, animosity between Gangrel and Ravnos is often quite fierce). For their part, the Gangrel put little stock in rumors. They trade stories when they meet, test their strength in combat and evade the machinations of politics. To the Gangrel, simple survival is more than enough.

Once a part of the Camarilla, the Gangrel seceded abruptly. Theories as to the reasons be- hind this departure abound; in their usual detachment, the Gangrel do not discuss the matter, however. This is not to say that all Gangrel are without affiliations -some remained in the Camarilla out of loyalty or friendship, while antitribu still claim allegiance in the Sabbat-it's simply that the clan as a whole no longer bothers with politics, after several cen- turies of Camarilla support. Naturally, this withdrawal makes Gangrel suspect in Camarilla courts, and with- out the support of a justicar or Inner Circle member, they can be subjected to political persecution-but few Gangrel really care.

Lives of the Night

50

Survivors, woods- men and animal-lovers make up the ranks of the Gangrel clan, so it's no wonder that they have

little use for

political infighting or social maneuvering. Typically, a Gangrel watches a poten- tial recruit for some time, judging the individual's ruggedness, determination and wanderlust. Those who fail the selection process are either ignored, or they become an evening meal. Those few who are chosen are Embraced and then left to fend for themselves. The Gangrel sire typically watches from afar, only intervening in dire situations and waiting until the new childe has proven her merit before introducing himself and undertaking the process of instruction.

Roleplaying Hints: You come from a long line of hardy explorers, both living and undead. In the Dark Ages, the Gangrel were Norsemen and warriors; in the modern age, you are still explorers, and you maintain the warrior spirit. You don't care about politics, or the Jyhad or sects, because they just don't matter to you. With all of eternity, who wants to waste immortality on foolish social maneuvering? There are new horizons to see and realms to conquer. The animals are your kind and your kingdom, and you give fealty only to those worthy of the warrior's heart.

Disciplines: Animalism, Fortitude, Protean

Advantage: While most vampires are uncomfortable outside of the cities, the Gangrel are hardy nomads, capable of survival in any territory. Although Lupines make travel dangerous for any Kindred, the Gangrel are better equipped than most to take to the open road or hide in the wilds outside of humanity's civilization. This wandering nature means that Gangrel hold to the requirements of any societies to which they may claim allegiance only rarely. Camarilla and Sabbat alike tend to give free rein to Gangrel wanderlust, and the sects rarely demand any sort of presentation or recognition. Few princes or bishops could really enforce a ban on the movements of the Gangrel in any case, so they rarely try.

The Gangrel are known to deal with the Lupines from time to time. Though any individual Gangrel probably risks much in confronting Lupines, most Gangrel at least know how to stay out of Lupine territory and what to do to avoid antagonizing the shapechanging killing machines. Gangrel who spend time in the wilds can learn Lupine Lore by observing (and hopefully evading) the Lupines. This fact doesn't grant that Lupines are any more favorably disposed toward Gangrel, but a Gangrel is more likely to know how to encounter a werewolf and survive.

All Gangrel gain a free level of Ability in each of Animal Ken and Survival. Disadvantage: The marks of the Beast make themselves known on a Gangrel's visage. Whenever a Gangrel frenzies, she gains an animalistic feature. Further frenzies cause such features to become more pronounced, or introduce new features. Elder Gangrel often barely resemble humans, with cat or doglike ears, sharp nails, tufts of fur, slitted eyes or stranger features. Each time the Gangrel frenzies, the character gains a new Negative Social Trait of Bestial, Feral or Repugnant. These Traits can never be bought off or removed without some sort of magical assistance (such as Vicissitude or Obfuscate). No more than five Negative Traits can be gained with this Disadvantage.

Bloodlines: Within the Sabbat exists a small urban group of predators known as the City Gangrel. These Gangrel trace their heritage to one of the two original Gangrel to join the sect, and they Embrace from among those who survive in the cities criminals, street people, lower-class laborers and the like. The City Gangrel possess the Disciplines of Celerity, Obfuscate and Protean. Although they manifest the same weakness as the rest of the clan, they tend to feature animalistic traits from urban beasts, such as rats' whiskers, cat tails and the like.

The Clans

Biovanni

The upstart Giovanni clan maintains a genteel exterior, dealing in matters of finance and internal family business. Of course, as with all vampires, their outward facade merely hides much worse. Rumored to have wrested their position from some clan now lost to antiquity, the Giovanni keep their small and secretive ties within their own family. Where there's money to be made, it's said, there's prob- ably a Giovanni. However, the business dealings of the Nec- romancers hide their debauched dealings in the magics of the dead. The Giovanni traffic in mortal crime and politics more as a way to fulfill expected stereotypes. Un- derneath, they study hideous necromancy, indulge in debauched rituals and wallow in the wealth of an incestuous immortal family.

Elders whisper that the Giovanni were noth- ing more than an Italian merchant family of great ambition and perversity in the early Renais- sance. Boredom with earthly pleasures led them to delve into necromancy. This study attracted the interest of an obscure branch of Cainites, who watched and guided the family's dabbling. In a surprising turnover, though, the head of the family managed to secure the Embrace from a now-forgotten Methuselah, and he finally stole the power of that ancient's blood. The foundling Necromancers banded together, Embracing only the most loyal members of their own family in order to protect themselves against the newly forming Camarilla and Sabbat, neither of which looked kindly on their usurpation. At length, they signed extensive treaties forbidding Giovanni involve- ment in Cainite politics, leaving them to their own devices in the practice of necromancy and the financial markets that they influenced.

Because of their ostensible neutrality, the Giovanni are sometimes called on to engage in business dealings that cut across sect

Laws of the Night

lines. However, they are never trusted, and they are always watched carefully. After all, they have had centuries to perfect the art of the deal, and their ghostly spies are said to be everywhere. The Necromancers' patricidal origins hardly endear them to the other clans, so for the most part, they are left alone, treated as one might treat a dangerous and unpredictable beast. This wariness on the part of the other clans suits them just fine-the Giovanni have great plans, and the involvement of the other clans isn't among them. Like the brokers that they are, the Giovanni are willing to play either side, but ultimately their loyalty always lies within the family. Who'd betray a family that has as much use for you dead as undead?

Since their inception as a clan, the Giovanni have always been particular to Embrace from within their own family. Most commonly, this nepotism involves the Giovanni of Italian descent, but intermarriages over the years have brought different families into the fold. Only very rarely is someone of a minor family or side marriage ever inducted into the undead ranks. Undeath is a reward; the best businessmen and most studious scholars are granted eternity to work their skills on behalf of the family. Others may remain ghouls for eternity, or they may even stay mortals. The Giovanni are no strangers to power-brokering, infighting and influence-mongering-but, ultimately, it's one's value to the family and clan as a whole that determines suitability for eternity.

Roleplaying Hints: You're twice-related to a family of murderous, incestuous, nihilistic undead. What more could anyone want? You have the opportunity to earn massive wealth, exercise your will over the very souls of the dead and to exist forever. All you have to do is follow instructions when someone older in the family talks and avoid causing a political scene with those dumb-ass "Kindred" of the various sects. You're smooth, you're urbane, you're educated and you're in charge.

Disciplines: Dominate, Necromancy, Potence

Advantage: The insular Giovanni family lends its experience and financial control to all of its members. Those who manage the family's assets well are rewarded; those who fail serve in a more "spiritual" capacity. Giovanni characters start with an automatic Influence level in Finance or Health, and they can either take a further additional level in one of those Influences or else gain an automatic one Trait Retainer-a wraith. A ghostly Retainer cannot help with Influence or perform other functions in the physical world, but it is capable of spying and exerting some ghostly powers on behalf of its master (see Oblivion).

Disadvantage: The bite of a Giovanni holds no Kiss, only pain and terror. When a Giovanni uses the bite to feed, mortal victims are rendered insensible with pain (instead of ecstasy). Furthermore, blood drained with a bite inflicts an extra level of damage for each Blood Trait stolen. Note that this extra damage applies only to mortal victims, and only if the Giovanni bites to feed-a tearing, mauling attack bite used for battle inflicts no additional damage.

Bloodlines: Several prominent financial and occult families have found their way into the Giovanni fold. The sorcerous Pisanob hold sway over South and Central America, the "respectable" Milliners work in New England, the cannibal- istic Dunsin maintain banks in Scotland and England and the della Passaglia trade in the Far East. These families do not have different powers, but they indicate that the Giovanni family is more widespread than many Cainites believe. All Giovanni are loyal to the family alone there are no antitribu, and those who attempt to rebel or flee are hunted down in short order.

The Clans

Ravnos

Once a great clan like the other 12, the Ravnos have, in modern nights, been reduced to a shell of their former selves. The treacherous tricksters once walked randomly among the other Cainites, untrusted and beholden to no one. In a recent storm of madness and death, though, they have been slain and lost until they are but a shadow of their former ranks. No more than a few hundred now claim Ravnos lineage and the strange illusions and philosophies that come with it.

The Ravnos came originally from India, predating the exodus of the Gypsy peoples by a few centuries. At first misunderstood, they wandered from place to place, ignoring the strictures of Cainite society and bringing chaos with them. Many vampires wondered if the Ravnos were Cainites at all, due to their strange behavior, foreign beliefs and unusual Disciplines. As the Dark Ages passed and the Camarilla and Sabbat arose, the Ravnos changed little; they cared not for the beliefs of the Westerners. Instead, the Ravnos continued to spread their unique brand of illusions and mind-twisting treachery across

Europe. By the modern age, they had become known well enough that any court would dread the arrival of a Ravnos, but they would never be barred from a city for fear of bringing down a horde of vengeful Deceivers.

Obviously, the charlatanry of the Ravnos grates on the other clans, yet none have both- ered to move against the Deceivers. Perhaps it's because Ravnos solidarity ensures that any aggressor would suffer an ex- cruciatingly annoying demise, or maybe it's just because the Ravnos aren't worth the time. For their part, the Ravnos seem to es- pouse a philosophy that places most Cainites some- where below invertebrates on the karmic scale-to the Ravnos, the undead are without purpose in the greater scheme of things, and they must be taught properly (by tearing the veils of il- lusion from their eyes through lies, subterfuge and thievery) or de- stroyed. It is for this reason that the Ravnos spread discord in their wake: They hope that an enlight- ened few will

Laws of the Night

54

awaken to their true purpose as heralds of change, while others may be slain and reincarnated into new roles.

During their heyday, the Ravnos most often brought in new recruits from the Gypsy families, mostly male. The diluting blood and customs of the modern age brought in a few more worldly recruits, and now that the Ravnos are scattered and few, they take potential childer where they can get them. Just about anyone with a keen wit can qualify for entry into the clan. Once regarded as buffoons, the Ravnos are now deadly serious. It seems that they may be the first casualties of an impending Gehenna.

Roleplaying Hints: It's not only the power of the illusions that you craft, but the voices that bubble in your blood. You are one of the few survivors of a world gone mad. Svadharma has taken hold of the Ravnos as a whole and spun them about, slaying many and leaving only a few to balance the wheel of karma. The world continues on a terrifying course to destruction, and there is no time left to save it. Perhaps all you can do now is survive, playing off greater forces while you hide and see what madness strikes next.

Disciplines: Animalism, Chimerstry, Fortitude

Advantage: The Ravnos tricksters, even those not of Romani blood, are expected to be chaotic whirlwinds of deception. Those who fall into their labyrinthine plots often blame themselves for their stupidity, and they would be too embarrassed to admit to their foolishness in any case. Thus, Ravnos can often get away with cons and deceptions that would land other Cainites in a great deal of trouble.

Since they all tend to practice various vices and move from city to city, all Ravnos gain one level of Streetwise Ability for free. They also have a level of Street Influence or Transportation Influence.

Disadvantage: Perhaps trickery runs in the blood, or maybe the Ravnos truly are harbingers of some greater chaos. Whatever the cause, all Ravnos suffer from a particular weakness for their own favored con games, scams and crimes. Each Ravnos has a particular "signature crime"; once each game session, the Ravnos must make an attempt to indulge in the particular vice, unless a test of Self-Control/ Instinct (difficulty of three Traits) can be made, with the usual risks for failed Virtue Tests.

Bloodlines: The Ravnos hail from several families of Gypsy stock. Different sorts of Ravnos thus have different capabilities. A Phuri Dae Ravnos learns Auspex instead of Fortitude; the Urmen learn Chimerstry more than any other Discipline, and the Vritra and Kalderash remain in India and the East, where they supposedly deal with the Cathayans. A few younger Ravnos-mostly gorgio-are found as antitribu in the Sabbat, but they are functionally similar to their independent cousins.

DEATH OF AN ANTEDILUVIAN

One of the first signs of Gehenna, the Ravnos Antediluvian is rumored to have actually awakened from torpor. Supposedly, so the tale goes, the creature tore itself free from the lands of Pakistan, roaring its hunger as it sought to sate the thirst of ages on the blood of its kin. Ravnos across the world experienced spells of delusion, madness and uncontrollable Chimerstry as the terror fought its way through waiting opponents. At last, it was felled by the combined might of many assailants, though no two stories agree on the nature of its slayers.

On the one hand, it would appear that the Sabbat is right-the Antediluvians are indeed awakening, hungry to devour their childer. On the other hand, the Camarilla's Masquerade may be the only way to avoid the notice of forces powerful enough to slay an Antediluvian. A World of Darkness, indeed....

The Clans

55\)

BLOODLINES

Outside the strictures of the 13 great clans and the two sects lie a small set of independent bloodlines. A bloodline is a minor lineage, tracing its distinctiveness to a founder of generation weaker than an Antediluvian, or whose birthright has long since been stolen. Found only in tiny numbers, the bloodlines pursue specialized interests that rarely come into confluence with either sect. Some can and do join sects the Camarilla and Sabbat alike boast some members of the bloodlines but in general, members of the bloodlines are rare enough to be unknown to most neonates and objects of curiosity to elders.

\-

Without any formal protection of a sect or clan heritage, vampires of bloodlines often find themselves persecuted by the more "established" lines. Still, they rarely come into direct conflict, since their interests are usually esoteric enough to preclude interacting much with other Cainites. Most cities do not even boast a member of a bloodline; these vampires are rare, often reclusive and usually possessed of highly specialized agendas. Furthermore, the full extent of their powers and capabilities is usually unknown to other Cainites, so established Kindred are loath to risk themselves by antagonizing unknown quantities.

Ultimately, with the exceptions of a few individuals, the bloodlines are footnotes in the Jyhad.

DAUGHTERS OF CACOPHONY

The Daughters of Cacophony are a distinctly modern phenomenon, with none described in records before 1700. The Cainites of this talented bloodline espouse music and the voice as tools for the soul. Through their enchanting arts, they perform arias of exquisite beauty, sing verses of ethereal consistency and fire

emotions in even undead hearts.

None can say where the Daughters of Cacophony began, and no one knows the name of their elusive founder. The Toreador and the Malkavian have been suggested as parent clans from time to time, with little substantive proof. Some scientifically minded Kindred claim that the Daughters diverged from their parent clan in antiquity due to their focused studies into song, while others speak of myths in which the bloodline's progenitor dealt with faeries or mermaids. The latter seems probable occasionally, as there is more than a hint of fey madness in the Daughters.

The Daughters of Cacophony seem to find the events of the Jyhad singularly uninteresting. These vampires spend their nights in practice and performance, trying to reach new pinnacles in their art. A few take the opportunity to perform for other Cainites, and their services are in great demand-though it is whispered that their arts can easily create terror and madness along with their inspiration. Most claim nominal membership in the Camarilla - finding the best patrons among that sect's ranks, and circumstances largely ideal for pursuing unlives in music-but sectarian considerations generally fall by the wayside. The music is all that matters.

Naturally, the Sirens Embrace only those females with musical and oratory talent. Every type of music and musician is represented in the ranks, from rotund opera divas to waiflike guitar-players to piano ingenues and even frontwomen of punk or jazz bands. However, they all share an inspired touch, a spark that strives for expression, even before the Embrace, and many are snatched away from the

Laws of the Night

50

mortal world and turned before they can achieve true mortal fame beyond their little-known careers. It is said that in the past, the Sirens allowed men in their ranks, in an even smaller bloodline called the Sons of Discord, but a recent vicious purge saw the destruction of all males (including castrati) in their ranks.

Roleplaying Hints: At the edge of your consciousness is a haunting song, the very music of the spheres. You can sense a spiritual state, the energy of creativity, that pushes itself through you and pulses in your otherwise still blood. Though your words and songs can strike listeners deaf, mad or dead, you care not-your Muse compels you. In short, you sing because you must. The music is all-blood, life and lover.

Disciplines: Fortitude, Melpominee, Presence

Advantage: At least one level of Performance: Singing is a requisite for Daughters, thus they get one for free at character creation. The Sirens often Embrace from talented or up-and-coming performers, so new inductees also have at least one level of High Society Influence or an additional level of the Performance Ability, as well.

Disadvantage: The constant throb of the Sirens' music plays through the minds of all Daughters of Cacophony, and a Siren is often deaf to all but her own music. As a result, in any test of perception, the Daughter suffers a two-Trait penalty on challenge resolution. No Daughter of Cacophony can ever have more than two perception-related Mental Traits.

SALUBRI

Of all Cainites, the Salubri are perhaps the most misunderstood. Billed as soul- eaters and infernalists, they are hunted wherever they go, cast out from vampiric society and reviled as monsters among monsters. Few Salubri remain in this age, for time and witch-hunts have conspired to destroy their past, their elders and their hopes.

Long ago, it is said, the Salubri were a true clan, led by an enigmatic Antediluvian. Somewhere in the past, their Antediluvian was destroyed and diablerized, his power stolen; with his death came the breaking of the Salubri. Once they were proud warriors and scholars in the Dark Ages, but with their leader's destruction they were forced to go underground, fleeing the persecution of the other clans, who perceived them as dangerous. Even today, those vampires who know of the Salubri consider them threats of the highest order, and only a rare few will knowingly give a Salubri aid or shelter. The Tremere in particular hold a special hatred for the Salubri, and they hunt them down at the merest rumor.

In truth, the Salubri are a line of healers and pacifists. Their founder, before his diablerie, disseminated the knowledge of special studies that he learned in the mystical East. Through these practices, the Salubri discovered ways to mend both flesh and spirit. The development of such insights is believed to lead to the development of a third eye in each Salubri's forehead, which most take pains to hide. Despite their persecution, the Salubri often remain gentle beings, concerned with the search for Golconda and the salvation of Kindred souls. They are still vampires, though, and predators. Woe betide the errant Tremere or unsuspecting mortal who takes a Salubri for a fool or weakling.

sa

Salubri share a peculiar form of Embrace: Once the deed is done, the sire calls on the childe to diablerize her. None are certain where this practice came from; even the few Salubri asked aren't entirely certain, although some believe it may

The Clans

have roots in an earlier time. Whatever the reason, the Tremere have been quick to add it to their arsenal of propaganda against the Salubri as infernalists.

Roleplaying Hints: Within your veins is the blood that heals; within your mind is the wisdom of centuries; within your spirit is the door to salvation. Vampires may be damned by their state, but you and anyone with strength of character can rise above that curse, learning to moderate man and beast in an understanding of your true nature. Through your arts, you learn to sense the wounds of flesh and spirit, to close the rifts that people set in their hearts and to bring about the end to suffering.

Disciplines: Auspex, Fortitude, Obeah

Advantage: Salubri are almost all of powerful generation; only a few elders survived the purge of their clan from the Dark Ages, and since each childe diablerizes her sire, there has been little thinning of the lineage. A Salubri receives two bonus Traits that she may put toward decreasing her generation. If the Salubri does not wish to decrease her generation, however the bonus Traits may not be used for anything else.

Disadvantage: The pacifistic nature of the Salubri precludes feeding on unwilling victims. A Salubri who takes blood from an unwilling or resisting victim automatically loses one temporary Willpower Trait immediately, and he must make a Conscience/ Conviction Virtue Test with a difficulty of three Traits. Failing this test results in the usual loss of Humanity/ Path Traits.

The Salubri are also a hunted clan, marked for death. Few neonates have heard of them, but those who hear about or actually meet a Salubri soon hear a litany of infernal crimes and accused misdeeds. The most dedicated enemies of the Salubri are the Tremere, who go out of their way to hunt and slay these vampires and who spread propaganda about the bloodline's supposed misdeeds.

SAMEDI

The Samedi are universally reviled as the most disgusting of Cainites, for all of them share a singular curse: Upon the Embrace, a Samedi becomes immortal like other vampires but he has only an imperfect preservation of the flesh. Some appear leathery and emaciated, like unwrapped mummies, while others look like corpses in various arrested stages of decay with a variety of noisome features-foul fluids oozing from tattered skin, rotted noses, death-rictus grins and sunken eyes.

The Samedi are a recent phenomenon, with none recorded as older than 250 years. The eldest, known only as the Baron, is said to lair in the Caribbean, where the line is said to have first appeared. The Giovanni are most often believed to be the parent clan of the bloodline, and indeed, enmity over some old wrong runs deep between the two groups. Occasionally rumors of Nosferatu involvement circulate, but neither group seems to give it great credence. For the most part, the Stiffs have little interest in sect politics beyond the good pay that princes or bishops fork out for Samedi skills as mercenaries or assassins.

The Stiffs Embrace rarely and then only from a small selection of candidates. Generally, the Samedi include those who find a fascination in the study of death and its physical processes. Morticians, existentialists, houngans and death cultists have all been inducted into their ranks. Candidates come from a wide range of races and social groups; the only real requirement seems to be an appreciation for death in all its forms.

Lies of the Night

58

Roleplaying Hints: Death comes to all things in time; it simply came to you in an unusual way. Life itself is defined by the fact that it ends. Such beginnings and endings are your passion: the animating moments of life, the pains that it endures and the moment that it succumbs. This quest is not so much a spiritual one as a drive to know how the process of creation and cessation works. By extension, you learn about the vampiric condition, the means by which life is extinguished and true death held at bay. You will see death in many forms, whether you are a simple witness or a delivering demon.

Disciplines: Fortitude, Obfuscate, Thanatosis

Advantage: With their strong connections to the process of death, combined with a tradition of dark spiritualism and insight, the Samedi have a significant knowledge of the shadowy Underworld and its ghostly denizens. Although they must pay the additional Experience Trait costs usual for non-clan Disciplines, Samedi can learn the Necromancy Discipline and its paths without need for a Giovanni instructor-a great number of the clan's members are necromancers par excellence without any traceable instruction. Samedi necromancers start with the Sepulchre Path, as usual, and most extend their insight rapidly to the Bone Path.

Disadvantage: Like the Nosferatu, the Samedi are physically repulsive in the extreme. When a Samedi's true form is apparent, the creature cannot initiate any Social Challenges except ones involving intimidation. No Samedi can possess the Social Traits of Alluring, Gorgeous or Seductive, and they all have the Negative Social Traits of Repugnant x 3 which can never be removed.

The Clans

59

have roots in an earlier time. Whatever the reason, the Tremere have been quick to add it to their arsenal of propaganda against the Salubri as infernalists.

Roleplaying Hints: Within your veins is the blood that heals; within your mind is the wisdom of centuries; within your spirit is the door to salvation. Vampires may be damned by their state, but you and anyone with strength of character can rise above that curse, learning to moderate man and beast in an understanding of your true nature. Through your arts, you learn to sense the wounds of flesh and spirit, to close the rifts that people set in their hearts and to bring about the end to suffering.

Disciplines: Auspex, Fortitude, Obeah

Advantage: Salubri are almost all of powerful generation; only a few elders survived the purge of their clan from the Dark Ages, and since each childe diablerizes her sire, there has been little thinning of the lineage. A Salubri receives two bonus Traits that she may put toward decreasing her generation. If the Salubri does not wish to decrease her generation, however the bonus Traits may not be used for anything else.

Disadvantage: The pacifistic nature of the Salubri precludes feeding on unwilling victims. A Salubri who takes blood from an unwilling or resisting victim automatically loses one temporary Willpower Trait immediately, and he must make a Conscience/ Conviction Virtue Test with a difficulty of three Traits. Failing this test results in the usual loss of Humanity/ Path Traits.

The Salubri are also a hunted clan, marked for death. Few neonates have heard of them, but those who hear about or actually meet a Salubri soon hear a litany of infernal crimes and accused misdeeds. The most dedicated enemies of the Salubri are the Tremere, who go out of their way to hunt and slay these vampires and who spread propaganda about the bloodline's supposed misdeeds.

SAMEDI

The Samedi are universally reviled as the most disgusting of Cainites, for all of them share a singular curse: Upon the Embrace, a Samedi becomes immortal like other vampires but he has only an imperfect preservation of the flesh. Some appear leathery and emaciated, like unwrapped mummies, while others look like corpses in various arrested stages of decay with a variety of noisome features-foul fluids oozing from tattered skin, rotted noses, death-rictus grins and sunken eyes.

The Samedi are a recent phenomenon, with none recorded as older than 250 years. The eldest, known only as the Baron, is said to lair in the Caribbean, where the line is said to have first appeared. The Giovanni are most often believed to be the parent clan of the bloodline, and indeed, enmity over some old wrong runs deep between the two groups. Occasionally rumors of Nosferatu involvement circulate, but neither group seems to give it great credence. For the most part, the Stiffs have little interest in sect politics beyond the good pay that princes or bishops fork out for Samedi skills as mercenaries or assassins.

The Stiffs Embrace rarely and then only from a small selection of candidates. Generally, the Samedi include those who find a fascination in the study of death and its physical processes. Morticians, existentialists, houngans and death cultists have all been inducted into their ranks. Candidates come from a wide range of races and social groups; the only real requirement seems to be an appreciation for death in all its forms.

Lies of the Night

58

Roleplaying Hints: Death comes to all things in time; it simply came to you in an unusual way. Life itself is defined by the fact that it ends. Such beginnings and endings are your passion: the animating moments of life, the pains that it endures and the moment that it succumbs. This quest is not so much a spiritual one as a drive to know how the process of creation and cessation works. By extension, you learn about the vampiric condition, the means by which life is extinguished and true death held at bay. You will see death in many forms, whether you are a simple witness or a delivering demon.

Disciplines: Fortitude, Obfuscate, Thanatosis

Advantage: With their strong connections to the process of death, combined with a tradition of dark spiritualism and insight, the Samedi have a significant knowledge of the shadowy Underworld and its ghostly denizens. Although they must pay the additional Experience Trait costs usual for non-clan Disciplines, Samedi can learn the Necromancy Discipline and its paths without need for a Giovanni instructor-a great number of the clan's members are necromancers par excellence without any traceable instruction. Samedi necromancers start with the Sepulchre Path, as usual, and most extend their insight rapidly to the Bone Path.

Disadvantage: Like the Nosferatu, the Samedi are physically repulsive in the extreme. When a Samedi's true form is apparent, the creature cannot initiate any Social Challenges except ones involving intimidation. No Samedi can possess the Social Traits of Alluring, Gorgeous or Seductive, and they all have the Negative Social Traits of Repugnant x 3 which can never be removed.

The Clans

59

With Donata's influence, it was a simple matter to convince Kevin to return with her and Peter to the old loft where the next part of the plan could proceed. The uncomfortable union made its way out of the projects and closer to the uptown areas, near art galleries and Peter finally parked in a nearby structure, Donata quided Peter and Kevin across the street and up a flight of stairs to studios in a historical building, above a busy restaurant.

were

museums.

Once in the studio, Donala shut and locked the door. Peter noted that most of the artistic furnishings somewhat substandard. Doubtless, this tiny studio served only as a meeting ground, and not as a true haven. He made a mental note to check проп the ownership of the building anyway, while he removed a small vial and a lighter from his pocket.

was

as

Kevin turned to regard Peter as the lighter- flicked into operation. Donata remained an impassive mask, but Kevin flinched at the sudden glow of flame. With a tiny smirk, Peter applied the fire to the tips of candles on a large candelabrum. Donata waited, impatient. Peter unscrewed the lid of the vial, daubing ting amounts of the bloody contents on his fingers. "This will settle matters. Nobody will be able to confirm anything out of Kristof, and that simply leaves Warburton to take all of the blame." Peter said in a reverential whisper. And he thought to himself, when the sheriff finds the paraphernalia in Donala's property. she'll take the fall for Kristof's death.

Now simultaneously entranced and repulsed by the flame, Kevin watched the unfamiliar proceedings, eyes flicking occasionally to regard the impassive Donata.

Peter closed his eyes and traced a slow circle in the air, then steeled himself as he passed his fingers through the flame. Tiny wisps of smoke rose from the fire, and the blood on his fingers vaporized, but he held his hand steady, his dry, dead flesh resisting the hungry heat. Peter knew better than to push his luck, though, and withdrew his hand as quickly as possible, opening his

eyes.

The flame danced a merry yellow on the candles.

Donata snarled with disgust. "You idiot\! You fouled it up\!" she spat at Peter, who tried to puzzle out his failure.

"I did it just as the Warlock instructed. He said to make that symbol, to burn the blood. and that all of the enchantments he'd placed on it would be released, that it would Kristof\!" Peter shouted in retort.

Kevin bared his fangs, hissing angrily at Peter. "That

spells to the Warlocks\!"

on

consume

was your plan? Leave the damn

Peter shook his head slowly. "No. I studied this... it should have worked."

"Unless that Tremere double crossed us\!" growled Donata.

"Or unless he were killed before his magic were released." Peter mused. "I'd better check

him. If he betrayed us, I'll take care of him myself. If he's dead, then someone's ahead

of us. Either this business is now personal."

Donata and Kevin watched Peter, frowning, as he left in a hurry.

CHAPTER THREE: CHARACTER CREATION AND TRAITS

Without characters, there can be no game. Each player takes on the role of a character, a persona within the context of the game. To guarantee that all players use the same potentials and capabilities for their characters, the rules of Mind's Eye Theatre provide a single simple set of guidelines for character creation.

•

QUICK CHARACTER CREATION PROCESS

Step One: Inspiration - Who are you\!

\-Choose a concept

Choose a clan

\- Choose a Nature and a Demeanor

Choose a Morality Path

Step Two: Attributes-What are your basic capabilities?

Prioritize Attributes (seven primary, five secondary and three tertiary) Choose Traits

Step Three: Advantages-What do you know?

Choose five Abilities

Choose three Basic Disciplines (four for Sabbat)

Choose five Backgrounds (none for Sabbat)

Step Four: Last Touches-Fill in the details.

\-Assign Blood Traits

\-Assign Willpower Traits

Assign Virtue Traits

Choose Negative Traits and Flaws (if any)

Choose a Derangement (if desired)

\-Spend five (or more) Free Traits and choose Merits (if any)

Step Five: Spark of Life - Narrative descriptions

Laws of the Night

62

CHICKEN OR Egg?

Many Storytellers and Narrators think that when creating characters, the player must begin with the end result - what sort of vampire is the person creating\! For those new to roleplaying or Vampire, trying to envision one's character that way is a little out of reach; after all, if they're not familiar with the vampire clans, how can they guess what they want to play? In such situations, another tack to take is to guide the new player through the creation of a person. In the end, no matter how much folks may want to deny it, every vampire started off as a mortal. Creating the mortal can sometimes give the player an idea about what clan might have claimed him and why.

A concept shouldn't be an exercise in pulling teeth, or another frustrating blank space to fill-it's meant to be helpful. If the way it's presented here doesn't help, ignore it or change it. Likewise, concepts do not always fit neatly into one- word definitions. Titling the character like a book or tagging her with a phrase that sounds right can be just as helpful-consider phrases like "Man In Black," "Bad Moon Rising" or "The Truth is Out There."

STEP ONE: INSPIRATION

Arguably the most important step in character creation is the formation of the basic concept. Every vampire was once a normal human, after all, with hopes, fears, dreams and ambitions. Once Embraced, the character brings her particular views to her new unlife. These strengths and weaknesses shape the character's Traits, capabilities and limitations.

The first step in creating a character is to come up with a basic idea of the person. This initial concept can usually be summed up in a single word-scholar, drifter, dilettante, laborer, whatever. Don't worry about details now; think more in terms of broad brushstrokes. Create the person, before you create the vampire.

CLAN

With a base concept in mind, determine your character's clan. An artistically inclined mortal, for instance, is likely to be Embraced as a Toreador; a businessman from European stock could be a Ventrue. It's fine to break stereotypes, of course, but the initial concept, even if it does not determine clan, will shape a character's outlook to her own clan (and others). The choice of clan influences a character's development heavily. The clan determines the sorts of goals and accomplishments for which the character will be lauded in Cainite society, and the expectations to which she will be held. The clan also determines the sorts of Disciplines, strengths and weaknesses innate to the character. Note that some clans or bloodlines are more rare than others, and the Storyteller may very well restrict access to some not every city will have a population of Lasombra antitribu or Daughters of Cacophony, after all.

If no clan strikes a particular chord, a character can always be Caitiff-bereft of any known clan and possessed of an eclectic assortment of Disciplines-but these vampires are almost uniformly weak of blood, higher in generation and limited in Cainite standing.

NATURE AND DEMEANOR

To define a character's personality, choose a particular Archetype. Each Archetype lists an underlying motivation, a reason for a character to behave in specific ways. The Archetypes described here are, by no means, the final list of personalities; Storytellers can suggest and approve any further numbers of Archetypes.

A character's Nature is her inner-most persona, the true basis of her motives. Though many people bury their desires behind facades, the drives of the Nature often shine through.

Character Creation and Trails

THE CLANS

Assamites-(Independent) Dreaded Assassins from the Middle East, the Assamites hunt other Cainites for vitae and study powers of silent death.

Disciplines: Celerity, Obfuscate, Quietus

•

Brujah

1

(Camarilla) Ideological revolutionaries and rebels, the

Rabble serve their causes with passion.

Disciplines: Celerity, Potence, Presence

Followers of Set- (Independent) Distrust and suspicion follow the Serpents in their quest for forbidden knowledge and service to a sleeping god.

Disciplines: Obfuscate, Presence, Serpentis

Gangrel (Independent) No city holds sway over the Outlanders, who wander the wilderness and survive as vampiric predators among animals.

Disciplines: Animalism, Fortitude, Protean

• Giovanni (Independent) The Necromancers keep a veneer of businesslike respectability over their family's dark practices.

Disciplines: Dominate, Necromancy, Potence

• Lasombra (Sabbat) The majestic and terrible Keepers control spiritual darkness itself in seeking to manipulate mortal and undead societies.

Disciplines: Dominate, Obtenebration, Potence

• Malkavians (Camarilla) The deranged Lunatics claim a fractured insight into the workings of reality.

Disciplines: Auspex, Dementation, Obfuscate

• Nosferatu

1

(Camarilla) The hideous curse of blood warps the physical visage of each of the Sewer Rats, but others respect and fear their mastery of hidden byways and secret-gathering.

Disciplines: Animalism, Obfuscate, Potence

Ravnos-(Independent) Claiming kinship to Gypsies, the wandering Deceivers hail from India with power over illusions.

Disciplines: Animalism, Chimerstry, Fortitude

• Toreador - (Camarilla) Protectors of culture and promoters of art make up the Degenerates, but they also include sycophants and pleasure- seekers in their ranks.

Disciplines: Auspex, Celerity, Presence

• Tremere-(Camarilla) Ruthless and insular, the Warlocks and their potent blood magic are untrusted, but grudgingly respected.

Disciplines: Auspex, Dominate, Thaumaturgy

• Tzimisce 1

(Sabbat) Hailing from Eastern Europe, the inhuman

Fiends study mortal and vampire alike with clinical coldness and utter ruthlessness.

Disciplines: Animalism, Auspex, Vicissitude

•Ventrue-(Camarilla) Rulers of board room and battlefield, the Blue Bloods lead other Kindred as their right and responsibility.

Disciplines: Dominate, Fortitude, Presence

Lies of the Night

64

THE BLOODLINES

Daughters of Cacophony-(Independent) Heralds of song and voice, the Sirens' music leads others to enlightenment or madness.

Disciplines: Fortitude, Melpominee, Presence

• Salubri (Independent) Reviled as soul-stealers and diablerists, the Cyclops flee from persecution while hunting spiritual insight.

Disciplines: Auspex, Fortitude, Obeah

Samedi

(Independent) Rotting and monstrous, the Stiffs claim terrifying control over the processes of death and the secrets of immortality.

Disciplines: Fortitude, Obfuscate, Thanatosis

Since the character's Nature is a result of her upbringing and life experiences, Nature changes rarely. It takes extraordinary events to cause someone to change Natures.

By contrast, the Demeanor is the public face, the one a character shows to everyone else. Even if radically at odds with the character's Nature, the Demeanor provides a convenient mask against intrusion. Demeanors are subject to change at whim; some characters may change Demeanors like some people change socks, while others may choose a single face to present to the world. On occasion, Nature and Demeanor may be the same, but few individuals are so open, especially in Kindred society.

ARCHETYPES

Architect, Autocrat, Bon Vivant, Bravo, Caregiver, Celebrant, Child, Com- petitor, Conformist, Conniver, Curmudgeon, Deviant, Director, Fanatic, Gallant, Judge, Loner, Martyr, Masochist, Monster, Pedagogue, Penitent, Perfectionist, Rebel, Rogue, Survivor, Thrill-Seeker, Traditionalist, Trickster, Visionary

MORALITY PATHS

Every vampire struggles with the Beast Within, the predatorial drive of hunger that pushes Cainites to acts of fury, desperation and horror. Only by clinging to a moral compass-a philosophical ground to stand against the ravages of amorality -can a vampire resist the slide into total depravity.

Most vampires cling to a semblance of their human morality, repressing their monstrous urges. The vicious politics of Cainite society take an inevitable toll, though. Similarly, the ravages of uncontrollable frenzy, combined with the vampire's alien- ation from humanity, push many to terrible deeds. Only through strong will and determined control can a vampire resist losing the last shreds of humanity as centuries of ennui erode the vestiges of mortal feeling. A few even take to inhuman codes, seeking balance through constructed vampire ethics. Regardless, many fail to hold to their ethics well, instead sliding into amorality driven by their hungers.

The majority of new vampire characters choose Humanity for their morality. Neonates cling to the memories of their human existences, seeking to reconcile their consciences with their new bloodthirst. Often, many of them are unaware of any other choices. Only a vampire of extreme determination takes to one of the Paths of Enlightenment, a created code of vampire behavior.

At this step in character creation, decide on a form of morality for the character: Humanity or a Path of Enlightenment. Traits will be assigned later. The important step is to determine how the character holds onto sanity against the relentless Beast. Most vampires default to Humanity.

Character Creation and Trails

MORALITY

This chart lists the Paths of Enlightenment common to vampires of many sects or independent loyalty, and it also shows the Virtues espoused by each Path.

• Humanity The default morals of mortal life include: Avoid killing. stealing or hurting; try to help others, or at least live without impacting others overmuch. Most vampires follow Humanity, even though many fail to uphold very much Humanity after a few decades or centuries. (Conscience, Self-Control)

• The Path of Blood- -(Assamite) A means to redemption through the teachings of Haqim, founder of the Assamites. Vampires on the Path of Blood hunt and kill in the holy quest to ascend to the level of Haqim. (Conviction, Self-Control) The Path of Bones-(Giovanni, Samedi) This Path espouses the study of physical death and the transformation of the body from life to death or undeath. A follower of this Path seeks an understanding of death and what lies beyond it, whether Cainite existence or that of a ghost. (Conviction, Self-Control)

The Path of Metamorphosis- (Tzimisce) The science of the Slavic Fiends in their search for a higher form of existence expresses itself through this Path. As vampires are above mortals, the followers of this Path believe that a higher consciousness awaits beyond vampirism. (Conviction, Instinct)

The Path of Night (Lasombra) This hideous Path delves into the vampire's existence as a tool for showcasing evil and serving the needs of the darkness that created him. (Conviction, Instinct)

The Path of Paradox-(Ravnos) This Path teaches that the material world is illusion, and that each individual must find his own place in the cycle of existence. Followers of this Path delve into riddles and puzzles to seek the underlying fates of all beings. (Conviction, Self-Control)

The Path of Typhon-(Followers of Set) The Setites hope to raise their dark god, and they use hidden knowledge and forbidden wisdom as their tools in binding others to this end. (Conviction, Self-Control)

The Sabbat also teaches certain other Paths, but such Paths are reserved for their savage children and not for vampires of the Camarilla or independent clans.

Paths of Enlightenment are advanced moral codes. They espouse an utterly alien viewpoint, with little grounding in anything resembling human morality. These are best played by experienced players. Consult a Storyteller before choosing a Path. STEP Two: ATTRIBUTES

Natural capabilities use Attributes for descriptions. Every character has certain innate qualities. Attributes describe these qualities, marking a character's particular areas of intrinsic talent.

CHOOSING ATTRIBUTES

Each character has areas of modest skill and other areas of excellence. You determine your character's natural talents, selecting whether your character is to be physically adroit, mentally agile or socially adept. The character's concept should guide these choices, so a mountaineer is likely to be physically exceptional while a bookish historian probably has more mental development than social.

Physical Attributes measure your character's general health, stamina, agility and power. A character with modest Physical Attributes is probably not very athletic, while a character with high Physical Attributes is exceptionally strong, dexterous or tough.

Laws of the Night

60

•Social Attributes determine the force of a character's personality and ability to interact well with others. If your character has few Social Traits, she may be awkward, shy or just plain-looking. A socially potent character is attractive, compelling or smooth.

•Mental Attributes help in problem-solving, learning, deduction and general alertness. With limited Mental attributes, a character is not particularly well-educated, quick-thinking or perceptive. A strongly Mental character is conversely attentive, logical or intuitive.

Choose the priority of your character's attributes. Each character is stronger in some areas than in others, at least at first. Obviously, clan and concept shape these attributes to some degree, but only a broad outline is needed in this step.

CHOOSING TRAITS

Once you've decided on your character's inherent strengths, you should describe exactly the sorts of exceptional characteristics he possesses. In your primary area of attribute development, choose seven Traits; in your secondary, choose five; in your tertiary area, select three Traits. Traits are adjectives describing the character, just like the descriptions in a novel or play. Thus, a Mentally focused character might be more Intuitive than Rational, or a strong Physical character could be Brawny and Tough but not very Quick or Nimble.

A complete list of Traits starts on p. 80. Pick Traits that describe your character as if you wanted to write down the particular qualities of the individual. You can pick a particular Trait multiple times, if you like, to denote spectacular depth in an area. STEP THREE: ADVANTAGES

No character begins play unformed and without education. The skills and training picked up in the course of life, and the friends made among various fields of work, all gift acharacter with special resources. Furthermore, vampiric powers, called Disciplines, flow from the blood of all Cainites, granting them superhuman capabilities. Collectively, these advantages are learned or developed benefits not inherent to one's raw potential.

Advantages are divided into several categories. Abilities represent skills or training, allowing characters to perform tasks. Backgrounds are connections among the mortal and immortal communities, representing such diverse facets as friends, social standing or Cainite sponsors. Disciplines are the powers of the blood, the finely honed endowments that come with the Curse. Lastly, Virtues represent a character's strength of moral behavior, defining how well a particular vampire comports himself and holds to his ethics in the face of the Beast.

CHOOSING ABILITIES

Select five Abilities that represent your character's education and training. Whether learned in mortal days or honed after death, Abilities set apart your character by letting her attempt tasks that less skilled compatriots cannot understand or complete. You can choose

ATTRIBUTES

Physical Traits: Agile, Brawny, Brutal, Dexterous, Enduring, Energetic, Ferocious, Graceful, Lithe, Nimble, Quick, Resilient, Robust, Rugged, Stalwart, Steady, Tenacious, Tireless, Tough, Vigorous, Wiry

• Social Traits: Alluring, Beguiling, Charismatic, Charming, Commanding, Dignified, Diplomatic, Elegant, Eloquent, Empathetic, Expressive, Friendly, Genial, Gorgeous, Ingratiating, Intimidating, Magnetic, Persuasive, Seductive, Witty

Mental Traits: Astute, Attentive, Clever, Creative, Cunning, Dedicated, Determined, Discerning, Disciplined, Insightful, Intuitive, Knowledgeable, Obser- vant, Patient, Rational, Reflective, Shrewd, Vigilant, Wily, Wise

Character Creation and Trails

07