your props at the site itself provided that you meet the site's safety and cleanliness requirements. If you can't store your props where you game, however, you're going to have to think about where to put them when the story ends for the night. Unless you have a huge storage area in your own living space, consider dividing up the props and entrusting some of them to players for transportation and safekeeping. The drawback to sharing prop storage is that a player may forget to bring a prop you need to the game; the benefit is that shared storage will keep your home from looking like you're having a yard sale.

Personal Props

More than costumes, personal props help identify particular characters or Narrator characters. Hats, canes, gloves, scarves, old medals, cloaks, briefcases, stethoscopes, riding crops, lab coats and jewelry all help give characters a distinctive appearance. The number one rule about personal props is: They must be safe. Never allow a player or Narrator to carry anything that might injure another person, and never permit any real or prop weapons in the game. Doing so is an invitation to disaster, and it is the hallmark of a foolish and immature Storyteller.

Economy is often a primary consideration in securing personal props. Many people just don't have the resources to spend on lavish costumes and brand new accessories they will use only for their games. Lead your players on a props scavenger hunt around your community, hitting discount stores, second-hand and consign- ment shops, yard and garage sales, and antique stores. The hunt for good personal props is continuous-most consignment and resale shops change their stock frequently, so make them a regular stop in your prop search.

So You WANT TO TELLA STORY...

You've got some players, a place to play, a plot and a collection of great CDs- you're ready to play, right? Nope. Here's a checklist of important things you'll have to work out before the game even starts:

BOOKKEEPING

You will want to keep a careful, exact record of certain things throughout the course of your story. You will be tempted to blow off the bookkeeping, but don't. Part of the fun for players is watching their characters grow and change over time. They will want to know how many Experience Traits they have, how close they are to gaining a new Ability Trait, and whether their latest Influence actions have borne fruit yet. A good Storyteller should be able to answer these questions with a minimum of fuss, but you won't be able to if you don't keep accurate records. If the scale of your story is too large for you to keep all the records easily by yourself, it's time to get some organizational help (see "Narrators").

If you have regular access to a computer or word processor, take advantage of some of the terrific record-keeping and contact management software available today. You can maintain one spreadsheet page for each player, or combine them all into one sheet for easy comparisons. Resist the temptation to maintain this database in electronic format only-if your hard drive ever crashes, you'll be very happy you kept paper copies in your notebook\!

CHARACTER SHEETS

Maintain a hard copy of each player's character sheet, even if you're using a personal computer for most of your record-keeping and maintenance. Insist that every player turn in a copy of her character sheet to you before participating in a single game, even if it means that she sits out the first hour of the game to copy out a character sheet for you by hand. Keep this original copy in your files and make

Laws of the Night

certain you update it as the story progresses. Develop the habit of reviewing all the character sheets regularly, perhaps a day or two before each game, to be certain that you didn't forget to add or note something. Track Experience Trait awards and expenditures on the sheet, as well as new Traits, Disciplines or any other changes. Keep these hard copies organized, and bring them to each game session. Establish a policy at your very first game that if there is ever any dispute about anything appearing on a player's character sheet, the Storyteller's copy takes precedence.

EXPERIENCE

Take a look at the Experience chart on p. 124, and decide how you will award Experience before launching your story. Advise each player of her award as soon as possible following every game, and note the award on your copy of the player's character sheet. Be fair when awarding Experience: You want to satisfy your players without destroying game balance. Awarding too much Experience will lead to characters who reach their maximum potential too quickly; awarding too few will result in player frustration and dissatisfaction.

Every player should earn at least one Experience Trait automatically for participating in a game session. Award an extra Trait to those players who roleplayed exceptionally well (but be sure to set the bar higher in subsequent games to prevent players from resting on their roleplaying laurels). Beyond that, consider awarding an extra Experience Trait on the basis of character achievement to encourage your players to be more active during game sessions. Encourage players to list their character goals in their backgrounds, or to provide you with a goal list before a game begins. If multiple characters contribute to achieving a group goal (like a Sabbat pack ousting a Camarilla prince from the city), give all the players involved in achieving the goal the extra Experience Trait.

INFLUENCE TRAITS

If you permit your players to use their Influence Traits during downtimes (see "Downtimes"), you must keep very careful track of what each Trait is doing at all times. Otherwise, it is inevitable that two characters' Influence Traits will clash as they attempt to complete opposing tasks - you will need to know when this eventuality occurs to aid you in narrating the resulting fireworks. If you are the Storyteller for a large group, say more than 15 players, consider giving control of the Influence Trait portion of the story to a Narrator; otherwise you may find yourself swamped with requests for Influence Trait activities between games.

STORY EVENTS

Keep a log or journal of how the story is going. After each game, find some time to jot down a few notes about what happened. Reviewing these notes will help you prepare for the next game session and evaluate how the story is progressing. Don't hesitate to ask individual players what their characters saw, heard and did at each game; better yet, ask them to provide you with some kind of post-game statement or note detailing the game session from their characters' point of view. CHARACTER CREATION

Work as closely as possible with your players during character creation. The time you invest now in helping your players create interesting, vivid characters will repay you tenfold when the game is actually under way. Much has been written about the value of building strong motivations into player characters, and this is your chance to remind players of this necessity once again\! Characters must have clear motivations, plans, hopes, dreams and goals, or they are little more than a dry collection of statistics on equally dry paper.

Storytelling

Some Storytellers like to meet with each player individually, but busy schedules and large troupes can sometimes make doing so impossible. Try holding a group brainstorming session to generate good, strong character concepts, talk about shared character histories and get a general feel of the sorts of stories to which these characters are best suited. Be clear about what you will and will not allow in your story. If you intend to change any of the rules in this book-and it's perfectly natural and acceptable if you choose to do so-inform your players as they are thinking about their character concepts, so that they do not inadvertently create characters that will be unplayable in your story.

Some troupes, particularly large ones, may have the luxury of several Narrators who can help players make characters and forward the paperwork to the Storyteller. This method works well as a time-saver for exceptionally busy Storytellers. However, if you decide to allow Narrators to supervise character creation, be certain to provide them with any special rules or methods you wish observed.

Regardless of the character creation method you employ, take ample time to review the character sheets before the first game session starts. Look for mistakes and errors that will complicate play later, such as a character with too many Attribute Traits for her generation. Acquaint yourself with the histories and backgrounds for each of your player characters. Make a genuine attempt to understand what makes each character tick, and if you don't understand, ask the player to help you grasp what he's trying to convey. If you don't understand why a character has a particular item in her background, ask the player to account for it before play begins.

Once the story commences, your concern should turn from character creation to character development. Encourage your players to keep records, diaries or journals written from their characters' point of view as a roleplaying exercise. Talk with players about their characters from time to time to get a sense of how they perceive the characters' actions within the context of the story, and how they think the characters are developing.

AN EVENING'S EVENTS

BEFORE THE GAME

Abandon any hope of accomplishing anything not game-related in the hours before the session actually starts. You'll be too busy making final adjustments to the night's plots and subplots, reviewing character sheets, packing up props and answering last-minute player questions. No matter how hectic or busy these hours might be, however, don't fail to take a few moments to relax and prepare yourself mentally for the game. If possible, meet with your Narrators and make certain they know about any special expectations or goals you have for the evening. PRE GAME SETUP

Be one of the first people to arrive at the game site. Establish yourself in a convenient table, chair or comer and tell your players when you think you'll be ready to get the game underway. Check out the game site-is everything as it should be? Unpack and set up your props, enlisting help from your players if necessary. Set aside some time to check in your players before the game starts-many of them will want to talk with you briefly and ask questions. Have your copies of character sheets handy. Check all props for safety, remembering that no real weapons of any kind are allowed in the game, ever. GAME ON

Give your players a minute or two to collect themselves and get "into character." Advise them that they should remain in character henceforth unless they have a

Laws of the Night

question for the Storyteller or a Narrator. If the size of your game location permits, designate an area as the "reality room" where players can take a short break if needed, dropping out of character and remaining out for as long as they are in that area. Then, when all questions are answered and you are ready, inform the players how long you expect the game session will last, dim the lights and announce the start of the game. DURING THE GAME

If you aren't actively portraying a character or answering a player's question, you might be a little uncertain what to do with yourself while the game is on. How you occupy yourself during a session depends more on your Storytelling style than anything else. Some Storytellers like to hole up in a corner with a notebook and watch the action, jotting down interesting occurrences and watching for problems. Others like to remain at their check-in area so that players can find them easily. Be prepared to answer questions, adjudicate challenges and resolve plot complications

at any moment.

AFTER THE GAME

It's a good idea to get your players together before they leave the game for some "decompression." Live-action roleplaying can be an energetic and intense experi ence. Give your players a little nudge back toward reality once the game is over. Encourage feedback from your players. What were their favorite and least favorite moments in the game? Did everyone enjoy themselves? If not, why not? Did anyone feel lost or confused? Are there any questions about the night's events (be careful not to give too much of the plot away when answering this one)? Make any necessary announcements at this point.

Police the game site and clean it. If the location belongs to someone else, leave it in better condition than you found it. Pack up your props and make sure everyone else does the same. Be one of the last people to leave, and give the site a last once- over to ensure that nothing was left behind or is out of place.

Many playing groups enjoy going out for refreshments after a game session, and that's a great way to relax and unwind at the end of the night. Don't feel obligated to continue Storytelling once the game session concludes, however. A player might not be able to enjoy his onion rings until you tell him how many Experience Traits he earned tonight, but it's important to encourage players to have the proper perspective about the game.

TAKING CARE OF PLAYERS

Some players will, for lack of a more polite word, obsess about your story and the game. They will spend the bulk of their free time thinking and talking about it, and they will pester you incessantly with more questions about the plots, subplots, characters and clues. This extreme behavior can be both annoying and frustrating, but try to see the unspoken compliment these players are paying you: They are so entertained by your efforts that it's their pastime of choice-no small feat in a world in which people enjoy many thousands of entertainments.

Encourage all your players to pursue their goals actively. It is not sufficient for a player to decide that she wants her character to become the prince - she must actively pursue this course of action during the course of the story. Encourage her to ask herself, before each game session begins, how her character can travel further down the path toward her goal tonight. The character who wishes to become the prince, for example, should plan to meet and speak with as many different characters as possible during the evening, in order to maintain a high degree of visibility in the

Storytelling

city. If she pursues her character goal actively during each game, she will eventually gain supporters who will become advocates for her ascension to the princedom (wittingly or otherwise).

Remember, while dispensing these snippets of advice and fielding dozens of zealous questions, to respect your players. Without them, there is no story\! This doesn't mean you should allow your players to run your life or run amok without consequences. Showing respect does mean that you should listen attentively when they ask questions, value their opinions and strive to give them the best story you can. Meanwhile, keep an eye out for players whose characters come into conflict with one another during the course of the story. These players will sometimes tend to allow these inter-character conflicts to spill over into tension and hostility between themselves. If this happens, don't hesitate to remind the players that they must learn to distinguish between the events that occur in the story and their own, genuine emotions. Such conflicts can, if ignored, become serious problems and damage your story.

NEW PLAYERS

Coming into a new situation is always nerve-wracking. Now imagine that you're going into a new place, meeting a group of strangers, yet you aren't even yourself\! That's what every new player is staring at when they make the giant step into roleplaying. These new players may become your veterans eventually, so it's important to give them some attention.

Occasionally, new players will forget what they should be doing, and they may drop out of character at inappropriate times or break a conduct rule. Your best option is to remind them politely to stay in character or behave themselves, as it is a courtesy for others who are trying to play around them. Point them to the reality room if they need a break or have questions.

If the new person has never roleplayed before, pitching them out into the game with only a smattering of rules and their character sheet is frankly a little cruel. Sometimes these folks come in with friends, spouses or significant others, so they aren't completely friendless or lost, but occasionally, the lone new person does come in, trying out something for the first time. Consider sending these folks in bearing plot clues for certain individuals, letters for characters or something that gives them a reason to get close to the other players. Some go-getters can plunge right into action without a moment's hesitation, but the shy and the inexperienced may need some extra help. If your chronicle has primogen who take an active hand in their clans, encourage those players to watch out for the very new folks.

Some older players exhibit a disturbing tendency to view new players as "fresh meat." There are few surer ways to drive off new players to your game than by letting the predators have their way. Keep an eye out for bullying, rules lawyering or the like against new players, and step in if you see someone getting dog-piled. Most new players are often shy about approaching a Storyteller, fearing that their word won't be taken seriously because they are not part of the "in" crowd. If someone does come to you with a complaint, listen to the grievance and investigate it seriously. Taking it lightly only reinforces the player's perception that his word is valueless.

In the end, your best bet with new players is to give them plenty of patience and be prepared to give them some extra help as they muddle through the first games. You will be rewarded with seeing someone develop confidence in her roleplaying and taking on an active role without needing encouragement, and that means another strong veteran player you can count on.

Laws of the Night

NARRATORS

You can't be everywhere during a game session. Sooner or later you will realize that something critical to the story occurred and you weren't even aware of it until a week later\! Sometimes you will actually be the last person to know about a significant event that happened at a game. Likewise, you can't do everything yourself, especially if your story scale is growing. Unless you have an exceptionally small group of players, you're going to need some Narrators.

Stories can have unlimited numbers of Narrators. A good rule of thumb is to enlist one Narrator for every 10 players, but you can adjust this ratio to suit the circumstances of your game. A very intricate or volatile plot may require more Narrators than one that is relatively straightforward or linear. The more Narrators you have, the more work you can delegate, and the more you can concentrate on Storytelling. Encourage players to go to Narrators with their questions first, espe- cially those concerning rules adjudication. There is no reason you must handle every challenge personally if you have Narrators who do so competently.

One of the most valuable and essential Narrator tasks is adjudicating rules questions. Therefore Narrators should be very familiar with all the necessary rules. You'll have to evaluate your Narrators and decide whether they should answer player questions related to the plot. If you want your Narrators to provide players with plot information, be sure to brief them thoroughly and establish the boundaries of what information they can impart and what should remain hidden. Give them clear expectations and good directions before each game starts.

Encourage your Narrators to ask for help if they are in over their heads, and don't hesitate to step in if a situation appears to be getting out of hand. Don't overrule a Narrator in public if you can avoid it, however, because doing so undermines her authority and causes embarrassment. Encouraging clear communication between your Narrators and yourself can help avoid such situations.

one

Narrators can help new players create characters, handle Experience Trait expenditures and help keep track of the story's paperwork. Some particularly large games utilize separate Narrators to handle individual aspects of the story Narrator for Kindred characters, another for ghouls and mortals, still another for Influences, perhaps one more for antagonists, as well. Each Narrator is then responsible for managing that story element, and he should do so with the goal of making less work for the Storyteller. DOWNTIMES:

THE GAMES BETWEEN GAMES

"Downtime" is the inclusive phrase to indicate not only the period between game sessions, but also any player's character's activities, actions and exchanges that occur during this time. If you weren't aware of this fact already, your players will make you aware of it approximately two minutes after the game concludes for the night. The end of the game session isn't necessarily the end of the action. Most Masquerade stories do not remain in limbo between game sessions- the characters still exist in the context of the story, even if they aren't all meeting in the same place at the same time. Naturally, your players will wish their characters to undertake a variety of activities between games.

The most inconvenient aspect of downtime or "off-line" gaming is that you cannot be present to personally adjudicate every activity. The best means of dealing

Storytelling

with this difficulty is requiring your players to submit an account of all their characters' downtime activities to you. Make certain you require that the players give you such accounts well before the next game session, as the reports will both provide you with a great means of keeping abreast of all character activities and yield a surprising number of story, plot and subplot ideas.

Good downtime information includes:

Hunting behavior-In what part of the city does the character normally hunt? Does she favor a particular type of vessel over others? How does she normally approach vessels? Does she kill them or merely take what she needs?

Influence Traits - The player should outline exactly what she is trying to accomplish and how, note which Influence Traits are involved and what contin- gency plans she's made in case her attempts fail or backfire. Consider the impact of these activities on your story before replying\!

Meetings - Who does the character meet with, when and why? What is discussed?

•Disciplines - If the character is trying to learn a new Discipline power, who is teaching him?

If you have access to a personal computer and have the skills, you may find it useful to create a Web page which offers your players a ready-made downtime form which they can complete and submit online.

HANDLING PLAYER QUESTIONS

There will be times during which you must engage a player in a discussion that obliges her to drop out of character. It's unavoidable, but try to keep such interac tions as brief as possible. Avoid protracted discussions or arguments about the rules; save them for after the game. If you must interpret a complex situation that threatens to seriously retard the pace of the game, make your ruling as quickly as possible and deal with any consequences later.

Often one of the most distracting questions comes from players who arrive to the game substantially after the designated starting time. These players may have excellent excuses or they may simply be inconsiderate, but regardless you must decide how to handle the intrusion. One method is to force these players to jump right into play immediately without benefit of conferring with a Storyteller - this penalizes their tardiness by giving them no opportunity to spend Experience Traits or clear new equipment cards before plunging into the action. Another method is to oblige these players to wait, not taking part in the game, until you have the time and opportunity to deal with their tardy arrival.

TROUBLESHOOTING

PLAYER BOREDOM: "THERE'S NOTHING TO DO IN THIS GAME\!"

You will hear this refrain at some point during your tenure as a Storyteller. If you choose your players wisely and prepare your stories adequately, you won't hear it too often, but when you do, don't panic. Remember: The responsibility and burden of creating and maintaining interest in the story does not fall entirely on your shoulders, however broad they may be. Your players have some responsibilities, too. When you hear these complaints of boredom, try to help the player identify the source of the problem:

Is the player pursing her goals actively?

Is the player hoarding information she should be sharing?

Is the player refusing to interact with other players during games?

Laws of the Night

Did the player miss one or more vital clues? Did the player create a full character background? Is the pace of the game too slow for the player?

Is the player achieving her character goals too easily?

Is there something in particular the player dislikes or doesn't understand about the story?

Paradoxically, you might hear cries of boredom even when you go out of your way to provide the allegedly bored players with a clear course of activity\! In such cases the problem almost always lies with the players' perception of the story rather than in any deficiencies in your Storytelling. Nonetheless, some players will claim to be bored and they will have a legitimate complaint. Prepare several plot threads you can introduce into the story quickly, but that do not invalidate the plots and subplots already in progress.

The more players that participate in your story, the more likely it is that one or more of them will eventually claim to be bored. The player may be bored because she's not pursuing her character's goals actively or worse, doesn't have any character goals. If you think such is the case, remind the player that the easiest way for her to exclude herself from the story and grow bored is to remain inactive and silent during a game session. Characters who do not interact with other characters or who do not make an effort to participate in the action will be forgotten quickly by their peers. While some players may be shy or may prefer to participate more passively, suggest that they locate at least one other character with whom to interact - otherwise, they probably won't enjoy the game, and there's probably little you can do to alleviate their boredom.

TOO MUCH VIOLENCE: "NOT ANOTHER MASS COMBAT\!"

Conflict is endemic to the Cainite world, and sometimes conflict will lead to violence. It's a part of the game, but it need not be the focus of each and every story. If you believe your story is plagued by unnecessary or ceaseless violence, talk with the players you believe are responsible. Do they truly believe they are roleplaying their characters' Natures and Demeanors appropriately, or are they using that as an excuse to kick the snot out of everything that moves? If every session devolves into a mob scene combat or extended series of Physical Challenges, you probably do have a problem.

Try moving the fictional location of the game to a place where the characters must think twice about going berserk, such as an art gallery, museum, shopping mall or the Elysium. If the extreme or unwarranted violence continues to be a problem despite your best efforts, the players and their characters must pay the piper for their behavior. Perhaps the prince and his entourage must make an appearance to put things right, or maybe a character will break the Masquerade by relying on his fists to solve every problem, leading to dire but well-deserved consequences.

If you believe the source of the excessive bloodletting is a particular player who seems to enjoy the game only if he's attacking or killing other characters, don't let this person ruin the game for everyone else. Deal with him calmly but firmly, informing him that if he can't rein in his behavior you must ask him to leave the game. If he can't handle such a stricture, get rid of him and don't look back.

METAGAMING: "HEY, YOUR CHARACTER CAN'T POSSIBLY KNOW THAT\!"

If your players seem confused about the differences between what occurs in character and out of character, advise them to adopt a means of determining when a conversation or other communication is occurring outside the context of the game. Suggest that the players remain in character at all times for the duration of the

Storytelling

session, except when they enter the kitchen area- designating a reality room provides players with a means of respite from the sometimes-taxing necessity of remaining in character.

ARGUMENTATIVE PLAYERS: "YOU CAN'T DO THAT TO MY CHARACTER\!

Do not allow the players to argue with you, particularly when doing so will disrupt the flow of the game. Listen to a player's grievance if it can't wait, then make your ruling and stick to it. Once you make your decision it's final-otherwise you might as well stop making decisions right now. If you respect the input of players who disagree in an appropriate manner, and then make a fair ruling, other players will notice and will emulate this behavior.

Encourage your players to respect the story. If the source of the argument is the death of a player's character, help the player deal with the situation maturely and rationally: Don't allow him to manipulate you through guilt or a tantrum. If the player simply cannot cope with the reality that not all things will go his way in the story, don't allow his social maladjustment to destroy the fun for everyone else. Politely but firmly ask him to leave, and do not allow him to return.

Sometimes players will argue among themselves about the game or their characters. You have the final authority to resolve such disputes. Don't let these situations grow into shouting matches or hysterics: Put a stop to them long before they reach that stage. If the arguing players can't resolve their disagreement, resolve it for them as quickly and fairly as possible; if they can't accept your decision, remove them from the game and try to help them work it out later. You've got a story to run, and you can't let this kind of situation delay the game for everyone else.

STORYTELLER BURNOUT: "I CAN'T THINK OF ANY MORE STORIES."

This game should not take precedence over your life. If you ever find it becoming a burden or unpleasant chore, get some help or arrange to take a break from Storytelling until you feel like returning to the helm. Let someone else take over the story for a while, or try playing a new type of game to recharge your Storytelling batteries. The game should be fun for you as well as for the players. Storytelling should never feel like a completely thankless task, a burden you grudgingly accept because no one else will - if you catch yourself feeling this way, it's vital to give yourself some well-deserved time off before taking up the mantle again.

PLAYER CHEATING: "HEY, YOU DIDN'T HAVE THAT DISCIPLINE A FEW MINUTES AGO\!"

It's an unpleasant fact of life that some players will cheat. A player might try to use Attribute Traits, Disciplines or resources her character doesn't have, or he might try to fudge the amount of Experience he has to spend. Take the alleged cheater aside and try to get to the bottom of the problem immediately-don't let accusations of cheating fester, for they will only undermine your players' confidence in you and their enthusiasm for the game. If you actually catch a player cheating, you really have only two options: Give the player another chance or remove him from the game.

Sometimes players "cheat" on a massive scale, "forgetting" to cross off Blood and Willpower Traits they expend during a game. You can combat these problems by having your carry cards or tokens denoting Blood and/or Willpower Traits. When a character expends either Trait, the player must turn over the appropriate token(s) to you. When a player runs out of tokens, she runs out of those Traits. Tokens can be a very graphic reminder of how precious Blood and Willpower Traits are to characters\!

Laws of the Night

£50

FAILED STORIES: "THIS GAME SUCKS.

33

Keep an ear to the ground for the murmurs of discontent among your players. None of us are infallible, and you are no exception. Sure, some players seem to never stop complaining, and you'll learn to screen unwarranted gripes. But don't dismiss all complaints as idle whining because sometimes your players will have a genuine beef. Encourage them to bring real problems to your attention, and be appreciative when they offer you constructive criticism and suggestions for improvement.

Sooner or later you'll tell a story that doesn't work right. Maybe the players weren't as interested in the main plot as you'd hoped they would be; maybe you miscalculated the characters' relative power levels and unbalanced the game. Don't let it discourage you from telling future stories\! On the contrary, it's important that you learn from these less successful attempts and apply the knowledge you gain to later endeavors. It's sometimes true that failure, as frustrating and disheartening as it may be, teaches us far more than our successes.

FAVORITISM: "YOU'RE ONLY LETTING HIM PLAYAN ELDER BECAUSE HE'S YOUR BOYFRIEND\!"

The best antidote to accusations of favoritism lies in refusing to practice it. Explain your decision-making process to your players and share your criteria with them. Strive to make your decisions about the game as impartial and objective as possible without injuring the story itself. It's particularly important to adjudicate rules situations fairly and not to favor people or characters you particularly like. If you place limitations on certain types of characters or powers in the game, rotate these elements so that players get a fair shot at them.

Unfortunately, no matter how careful you are to remain objective, accusations of favoritism will surface from time to time. Sometimes they are unjustified, masking other issues: A player's character died, and he wants to blame someone for his loss; a player felt she was unfairly denied the opportunity to play a special role in the game; a player thinks the Storyteller's decisions are motivated by friendship rather than the desire to tell a good story. Deal with the accusation directly-take the accuser aside and discuss why she feels that she's the victim of favoritism. Don't overlook the possibility that she might actually be right. Sometimes it's possible to practice favoritism without consciously realizing we're doing so. If the accusation is deserved, amend your behavior accordingly.

PROBLEM PLAYERS: "He's BUINING THE GAME AGAIN\!"

Don't ever be afraid to lay down the law with problem players. The integrity of your story is your responsibility, and everyone has equal opportunity to enjoy the story. Most players will usually present no problems, but occasionally someone will cross the boundary of acceptable behavior. Often the transgression is accidental and requires only a reminder to keep players from getting out of hand. But you might encounter a player who actually enjoys getting out of control and wrecking the game through constant disruption. Maybe he likes the attention or the feeling of power it gives him, but whatever his motivation you must deal with him quickly, calmly and decisively. It's your story, and you're well within your rights to remove such offenders from your game permanently.

Storytelling

est

car,

Once he left Donata's studio, Peter got in his drove to the other side of the block, then got out and came back to a restaurant on the nears side. He waited for Donata to leave before he set his

Own plans in motion.

The conniving Toreador certainly had a plan of her own. Peter surmised. She was at the point of becoming more liability than asset. He decided to ser if Kevin's unnatural desire couldn't be turned against her in some fashion. He pulled out a cellular phone and alerted one of his minions to arrive with certain preparations.

Finding Kevin wasn't hard. Donata's bip about the mausoleum was right-doubtless because she wanted both of them there. Peter parked outside the cemetery and approached cautiously. He watched the hellhounds closely and called out from a safe distance.

After a moment's silence, Peter's shout was met with an answer. In a blur of motion, the anarch had crossed from the steps of the mausoleum to stand a

I no more than a arm's length away from Peter.

Peter simply put his hands in his pockets and waited for the anarch to get to the point. If Kevin decided to attack him, he could probably fend the Brujah off with a supernatural command, but he needed to see where Kevin's loyalties lay.

Tired of waiting, Kevin continued. "You're here about Donata, right? She's a bit too conniving for her own good. Serve her right if she slipped up a

bit in

her

H

own

plots."

Peter cocked his head. He had no idea how the anarch had broken Donata's preternatural grip, but it had to be a potent power indeed. "You come to the point. She's becoming firesome. I think perhaps we should pay

her a joint visit let her know where our little alliance stands." Kevin brushed past Peter, aiming for a motorcycle neatly concealed behind some thick brush. "Oh, I do agree," he said. "Going to hang us out for the sheriff. doubt. Well, she'd better learn that when she pushes,

some people push back." Peter simply got back into his car, , and followed Kevin to the studio.

по

Donata was still out. Within the studio, the candelabrum waited with a fresh batch of candles. Moving cautiously and with head bowed, the ghoul poured out two glasses

of deep red life. Kevin watched the proceedings with a sneer.

own.

пр

"It occurs to me." mused Peter as he offered a glass to Kevin before picking up his "that if Kristof really does turn up dead, and the package winds with Warburton's signature on it, then most of Donata's enemies have vanished. However, if a picture makes it into Warburton's hands

a certain Toreador then she

say.

of

might well find herself dragged down with him."

"You think I haven't kept tabs on Warburton? My boys

arrangements," Kevin said, as he regarded the glass.

can make the

necessary...

Peter nodded while the replacement candles from a different Tremere flickered.

"To mutual gain." he toasted, raising his glass to Kevin's.

of a

The anarch simply sneered at him, the glasses making a tiny clink like the settling a piece in a large puzzle of crystal.

CHAPTER SEVEN: ALLIES AND ANTAGONISTS

There are far more beings than vampires roaming under the dark skies. Some are allies, some are enemies and some defy simple definitions altogether. This chapter presents basic material on the many other supernatural factions of the World of Darkness, as well as some idea of how to present them in a Masquerade game. ANARCHS

TRUE FREEDOM NEVER DIES

When the fires of the Inquisition roared and elders sacrificed their childer to save themselves, the Anarch Revolt erupted in response, as younger vampires struggled to survive by overcoming the dictates of those above them in station. The largest faction of the rebels eventually became the Sabbat, but not all those involved were interested in joining that fanatical crusade, nor were all of the rest seduced back into the folds of the Camarilla by the peace offers made at the Convention of Thorns. Some, whether due to dedication, pride, fear or sheer idealism, chose to continue the fight outside the boundaries of both sects and the independent clans as well, waging war against those who refused to recognize the rights of vampires beneath them as anything other than pawns. Beset by Camarilla scourges and Sabbat recruiters, however, the numbers of these true anarchs remained fairly low for several centuries, although the flame of their defiance never went out. The new era of democracy born in the 18th and 19th centuries offered them a chance to gain some ground, but the going was still slow against the monolithic Camarilla and the rabid Sabbat.

Things began to change in earnest with the 20th century. As individual rights and freedoms became more important to mortals, an ever-increasing number of new vampires left the confines of sects and tradition to embrace the Anarch Movement. Sensing cracks in the Camarilla's facade, anarch revolutionaries in Los Angeles overthrew the prince and declared the entire city an Anarch Free State. Now, almost the entire West Coast (and a fair portion inland) constitutes the Anarch Free States, bordered by the Sabbat in Mexico and interrupted only by San Francisco, which continues to hold its ground as a Camarilla stronghold.

Laws of the Night

The stereotypical anarch is a howling Brujah neonate with numerous body piercings, wearing combat boots and a battered leather jacket, who hurls insults at the elders while torching the prince's azalea bushes and beating his ghouls. Contrary to such perceptions, anarchs can be drawn from any clan or generation, and the only trait most of them have in common is a strong desire to lead their unlives the way they choose, not according to elder dictates.

Player should note that an anarch is not simply any vampire who thumbs her nose at the structures of sect and status, nor is an anarch a leather-clad hooligan who destroys an elder's property. Rather, anarchs-true anarchs-are those Kindred who reject the entire way of unlife offered by the clans and sects, setting aside all the training, benefits, protections and other perks those groups offer in exchange for the freedom (they believe) to choose their own destiny. To be sure, there are anarchs who dress and act like nightmarish rejects from a punk rock show, but this stereotype should be far from the case with even most of the anarchs a Kindred encounters. When playing an anarch, all that is necessary is a desire to resist the Jyhad in all its forms, to face Final Death rather than submit to the rule of those who claim superiority by blood or social standing and the courage to see such resolutions through in the face of terrible opposition.

Anarch characters are created the same as any other vampire character, with the following changes:

Existing outside of sect and clan, anarchs begin with no Status Traits, not even Acknowledged, and they can never gain any in either sect. Furthermore, by rule of the Treaty of Thorns, anarchs need not respect sect Status in any way (and they suffer no game penalty for ignoring it), nor can they be subject to sect justice or automatically hunted on sight without sufficient cause. This restriction does not stop many cities from using anarchs as scapegoats anyway when things go wrong, however. Yet the treaty cuts both ways-Kindred lose no Status for refusing to acknowledge boons owed to anarchs, and they need grant them no favors of hospitality or protection either.

Many anarchs have Flaws like Notoriety, Enemy, Sire's Resentment, Clan Enmity or other traits relating to a bad reputation in Kindred society or fallout from their decision to join the Anarch Movement. Additionally, Storytellers may disallow anarch characters from taking Kindred Ties Merits such as Prestigious Sire or Reputation without an excellent explanation. GHOULS

THOSE WHO SERVE

Vampires employ many human servants in their nightly games, but perhaps none are so useful or dangerous-to Kindred as ghouls. Created when a living being drinks vampire blood, ghouls gain a measure of immortality and supernatural power, but they pay a stiff price for these benefits. Most ghouls are blood bound to their domitors (masters), and they all depend on a steady supply of vitae to keep their special "gifts." Valued for their ability to walk during the daytime and interact with mortals in ways inhuman vampires no longer can, competent and loyal ghouls can earn places of great respect in the eyes of the Kindred. Would-be servitors beware, however. Particularly skilled ghouls are frequently targets of a vampire's enemies (or even other ghouls vying for a master's favor), and when it comes to a question of survival or social advancement, few Kindred have qualms about sacrificing their retainers. Walking such a delicate tightrope without losing all personal identity takes an extremely strong-willed and talented individual, but the rewards of immortality and a generous domitor can be beyond one's wildest dreams.

While the Camarilla makes extensive use of ghouls, the Sabbat does not. The concept of a mortal being given even a fraction of the benefits of vampirism is anathema to that sect. However, occasionally there is no other way to control a particular pawn, although such

Allies and Antagonists

855

mortals are seldom allowed to enjoy their ghouldom longer than the immediate needs of the sect require. More commonly, if the Sabbat needs to infiltrate human society in a way vampires cannot perform, the sect makes use of select ghoul families known as revenants. Born with vampire blood already in their system, revenants can live hundreds of years, develop Disciplines like regular ghouls and act as spies in places the monstrous Sabbat cannot infiltrate themselves. Most revenants have very low Humanity ratings, and some even choose to follow Paths as do Sabbat vampires. There are four main families of revenants, each with its own special area of aptitude: the freakish Bratoviches, animal trainers and Lupine hunters; the manipulative Grimaldi, masters of politics and blackmail; the reclusive Obertuses, archivists and scholars to the sect; and the hedonistic Zanatosas, debauched seducers of Kindred and kine alike. Revenants are not well-liked within the sect, and only their residual usefulness and the sway of the Tzimisce clan has kept them from being destroyed outright. Revenants in active service to the sect are monitored closely at all times, and those who show signs of failure, willfulness or treachery are destroyed swiftly and without mercy.

More detailed rules and background for playing ghouls and revenants can be found in Liber des Goules and Laws of the Hunt, but the basics of ghouldom are included here:

• Ghouls do not age as long as they have vampire blood in their systems, and they may also use the Blood Traits of Kindred vitae to heal themselves or boost their Physical Attributes in the same manner as Kindred. Furthermore, a ghoul gains the Discipline of Prowess, and he may even develop other Disciplines (Fortitude, Celerity) over time, although the Experience cost is one Trait more than normal. Ghouls cannot learn any Disciplines without a mentor, and they may not learn non- physical or any Disciplines beyond the Basic level without a domitor of sufficient generation and Storyteller permission. (See Laws of the Hunt, p. 90 for an idea of what generation is "sufficient.") The vampire blood in ghouls cannot be used to create blood bonds or be in any way employed against its original owner - as soon as it is ingested, it is considered part of the ghoul in question.

• Ghouls who go without an infusion of vampire blood for more than one month cease to be ghouls (although they may be ghouled again), immediately losing all Disciplines and other blood-related advantages. Such ghouls also begin aging once again, and those who have lived beyond the normal human lifespan may have only days or even hours before time catches up to them; aging unto death is a frightening reality for very long-lived ghouls who find themselves cut off.

Ghouls typically suffer psychological effects from the blood in their system. Due to their continual need for vitae, almost all are blood bound to their masters, and many develop other obsessions based around their domitor in addition to the bond. Ghouls may also frenzy, although they are two Traits up on all tests to resist doing so, as the urge is due to the vitae in them and not an innate drive. Ghouls may not purchase the Merit: Unbondable without Storyteller permission, and even then it costs twice the standard Traits to purchase. (Note: Ghouls known to possess the Merit: Unbondable are considered pariahs by the Kindred, if not hunted outright, since they do not have the loyalty of the bond and therefore could betray their masters or even hunt them for their blood.)

Regular infusions of vitae do not affect the aging processes of revenants, of necessity, although they may gain all the benefits of ghouldom (as well as its drawbacks) by ingesting vampire blood. Ghouled revenants may learn Vicissitude in addition to regular ghoul Disciplines.

HUNTERS

SOULS WHO BRAVE THE DARKNESS

Despite the Camarilla's strict enforcement of the Masquerade and the clumsy efforts at secrecy that the Sabbat makes, some mortals inevitably learn of the undead menace that Laws of the Night

£50

walks among them--and some even dare to strike back. A few hunters still operate alone out of ignorance, pride or paranoia, but the Final Nights are seeing many hunters banding together, diverse individuals who find common cause in bringing an end to the undead threat. Younger vampires scoff at the notion that even bands of hunters pose any serious threat to Kindred society as a whole. Elders who remember the Inquisition do not laugh quite so easily. In those nights, vampires were the prey of the fires of the witch-hunters, and the force of humanity united against them was nearly the undoing of all Kindred. Even the cockiest neonate and sturdiest elder must sleep when the sun is high, and who knows what damage even an inexperienced band of mortals can do while their foes lie helpless?

The eldest hunting organization is the Society of Leopold, more commonly called the Inquisition, which dates back to the very first fires of that time. Once entirely Catholic but now open to other faiths, the Society is a branch of the Catholic Church so secret that not even the Pope knows of it, and it is charged with ridding the world of the vampires, demons and their ilk. To this end, these hunters employ a lethal combination of True Faith and martial skill against their enemies. While not all their lore is accurate, they have centuries of experience at battling the Kindred, and their teams are well-equipped and highly dedicated. The current head of the Society, Ingrid Bauer, has reinstated torture as a means offighting vampires, and while some Inquisitors have qualms about such harsh means, none question the evil the Damned represent. The Society has also opened several secret camps dedicated specifically to training warriors for God, and it is looking to step up the war with undead, perhaps to a level where the Kindred will face the unpleasant prospect of outright war with the Society once more. Any Society member a Cainite encounters will be well- trained in combat techniques, schooled in the means of incapacitating/ destroying a vampire and perhaps possessed of a measure of True Faith as well.

Another threat to vampires lies in the United States government itself. While different agencies seldom share their findings with each other, many individuals within various organizations have glimpsed at least part of the supernatural puzzle. In particular, the FBI has maintained a quiet Special Affairs Division (SAD) dedicated to investigating paranormal phenomena, and the Centers for Disease Control have many documented cases of bizarre blood samples (actually vampire or ghoul vitae) or diseases transmitted without obvious contact between victims (caused by vampires feeding). Most disturbing of all, by making use of new chaoscopic cameras that can detect vampires, ghouls and wraiths, the NSA has discovered the existence of these "black bodies" (so dubbed for their appearance to chaoscopic technology) recently, and it is in the process of training agents to battle the threat they feel such entities represent. The two real hindrances to government action are a lack of information-sharing between agencies, which would fill in crucial gaps in each agency's data; the other is the interpretations that the government agencies give to the data they have. Case in point: the NSA believes that the "black bodies" they see are actually extradimensional entities possessing human bodies toward some nefarious purpose, and it is preparing its eventual retaliation accordingly. In the meantime, the Kindred do their best to plant pawns in sensitive agencies and destroy any evidence that threatens the Masquerade, and all vampires shudder to think what would occur should any of the agencies in question start comparing notes and preparing a more comprehensive national response.

Another, less visible threat to the existence of vampires is the scholarly organization known as the Arcanum. Founded in the 19th century by an elite group of occult scholars, the Arcanum has since spread its Chapter Houses across the world, documenting any supernatural phenomena it comes across and researching all manner of ancient mysteries related to the unseen world. Scientific as it is, the Arcanum takes direct action rarely, preferring to observe instead, although some Arcanists are formidable psychics or hedge wizards in their own right. The arcane resources they have at their fingertips are Allies and Antagonists

257

astonishing, however, and while most of the facts are mixed with folklore, some of the knowledge the dedicated can glean is amazingly accurate. Many Tremere would give their fangs to have access to the library resources contained within an Arcanum Chapter House. In recent years especially, the society has screened applicants carefully for signs of ghouldom or other vampiric control. And while the burning of the Boston Chapter House at vampiric hands in 1910 drove many researchers away from observing the Kindred, that incident has only added fuel to the recent calls for the Arcanum to take a more active role in battling the undead or be tacit contributors to genocide. Indeed, some of the Inquisition's latest and most devastating strikes were made on the basis of information passed from Arcanum hands, and that is only the tip of the data at their command. Should these scholars choose to take a truly active role, supernatural beings across the world would discover just how much the Arcanum has seen over the years.

Finally, Kindred have long had their talons in the affairs of organized crime, and many rule criminal families like the elders command the clans. However, vampires in major cities across North America and even parts of Europe have reported a rebellious streak in the local criminal element, from the thugs and hitmen all the way up to the highest leaders. Some criminal gangs have even banded together to hunt their former masters, with results ranging from the amusing to the outright terrifying. Reports gathered from several cities indicate the criminals in question received a visitation by a mysterious being calling him/herself "Caitiff," who displayed supernatural powers and then convinced them to rise up against their Kindred bosses. Some of these emissaries claimed to be angels out to save the souls of their audience, while others ordered a hunt against vampires in general. Regardless, many criminal organizations have shifted away from undead control as a result. Devastating gang wars have erupted in several instances, and most Kindred commanding of criminal elements now rule from behind a protective screen of middlemen, afraid of where the mysterious rabble-rousers will strike next. A substantial reward has been placed by several different princes for the identity of those responsible (although some vampires suspect a lone metamorph is behind the deception), but the culprit clearly knows Kindred society and has proved a difficult target so far.

This list is far from comprehensive. Other hunting groups form constantly, each with varying amounts of equipment and expertise. When creating hunter antago nists, Storytellers should remember that their learning curve is extremely high. Many do not survive their first few hunts, but those that do become dangerous foes indeed. For more on hunters and playing mortal characters, see Laws of the Hunt and The Laws of the Hunt Players Guide.

THE CHANGING BREEDS

Vampires are not creatures of the cities simply for the sake of the convenience it offers for feeding. Indeed, many Kindred who travel beyond the protective anonymity offered by the endless skyscrapers never return, brought down by the claws of the ferocious beings known as Lupines. Intensely spiritual creatures and ancestral enemies of the Leeches (as they call them), werewolves apparently serve the will of Gaia, the Earth Mother, and they do battle with the minions of a celestial entity they call "the Wyrm." Anything that threatens to defile nature or upset its delicate balance is a potential target of their great wrath; as manipulators and proponents of the cities, vampires are considered unnatural parasites, a blasphemy on the face of Gaia, and most Lupines will go to great lengths to extinguish any vampires they find regardless of sect or clan. Indeed, werewolves seem to be able to "scent" out most vampires no matter where they may hide themselves, and some Kindred scholars believe that werewolves hunt vampires as part of some monumental religious Jyhad of their own. The only thing that has kept the two sides from an apocalyptic confrontation over the centuries is the

Laws of the Night

258

EXCHANGE RATES

Sometimes a vampire will want to use a power on a target that calls for the target to spend a type of Trait he doesn't have (such as requiring a Lupine to spend Blood Traits), or enter into an alien mental state (such as putting a mortal in frenzy). The Storyteller's word is final on what powers are allowed across supernatural lines -some powers are designed specifically against a certain supernatural type, and they will not work on another, while others are more flexible. However, if a crossover is needed, here are some general guidelines: If a Discipline calls for a non- Kindred to spend Blood Traits, the target may substitute Gnosis/Pathos/Glamour/ etc. Traits instead, or a Willpower Trait if no other Trait applies. Likewise, Kindred subjected to powers that call for them to spend foreign Traits may substitute Blood Traits instead. This rule applies only if the target would normally spend Blood Traits, such as the Blood Rage Discipline of Thaumaturgy: powers which cause a target damage through drain of Blood Traits still function normally, since the target is not supposed to use the blood, only lose it.

If a vampire is using supernatural powers to instill frenzy or Rötschreck into a target that cannot normally enter such states, the Narrator may rule that the target simply suffers from an active Crimson Rage or otherwise appropriate derangement for the duration of the power; those states are not as severe as what vampires would normally experience, but they are the closest the target's soul-fundamentally less savage than that of a Cainite-can come to such primal instincts.

reluctance most Lupines exhibit to enter the cities, as they seem to find the disconnection from nature too uncomfortable. However, as the Final Nights loom closer, more and more the sound of wolves howling chases the setting sun from the sky, and Lupines roam the streets in search of undead prey.

Werewolves appear to be divided by families, and the shifters place a great deal of importance on lineage. Licks who slaughter a lone Lupine carelessly had best beware the wrath of the fallen one's kin. What's worse, like their animal cousins, most werewolves travel in packs, and as such, their numbers and ferocity make even a fairly young pack a potential threat to powerful Kindred. Few hard facts are known of the various Lupine families, although an increasing number of Kindred have faced growing competition over urban centers of influence from a tribe known as the Glass Walkers. These Lupines seem to be adapting to life in the city, and as such, they are deemed a great threat by the elders. Furthermore, Nosferatu are said to have gossip pacts with a family of downtrodden Lupines called the Bone Gnawers, and Tremere have clashed many times with the mysterious, magically adept Uktena tribe. Beyond the cities there are whispers of Lupine tribes even more feral and vicious than that, and of other, rarer shifters too: curious raven- folk, inscrutable cat-people, prankster coyotes and even cunning wererats, the latter who are also said to have a pact with the Nosferatu stretching back centuries. Most Kindred scoff at the notion of such exotic werebeasts-if they have heard of shifters at all-but being walking dead themselves, who are they really to question such anomalies?

Of all the Kindred, only the bestial Gangrel typically have any chance at dealing with Lupines without the encounter dissolving into combat, and relations between the two are still standoffish at best. As long as each side honors the territory of the other, and does not prey on the other's protectorate (a Gangrel who dares to feed on or Embrace a Lupine's relative is still assured a quick Final Death), the Outlanders and the Lupines leave each other in peace. As for the rest of the Kindred, Lupines tend to kill first and ask questions later, an attitude vampires eagerly reciprocate. Some especially diplomatic

Allies and Antagonists

259

cities have "peace treaties" in place, but such agreements are fragile in any event, and they usually end in rampages of violence that make the preceding tranquillity seem a small gain indeed. The two sides are just too naturally and historically opposed to each other to make lasting peace. While rare (and very, very quiet) friendships occasionally develop between species, the price in both societies for dealing with the enemy is high indeed.

Complete, detailed rules about playing Lupines can be found in Laws of the Wild, but the following summary is enough to portray the basic aspects of Lupines in a Laws of the Night game:

Many Lupines can detect vampires with low Humanity and Path ratings, whom they claim "stink of the Wyrm," and they will attack such vampires without hesitation. Gangrel are an exception-they do not smell of the Wyrm unless their ratings are quite low indeed.

• Lupines have three basic forms, which they may shift between freely: Homid (human), Crinos (bipedal man-wolf death machine) and Lupus (wolf). Homid is the same as human, and Lupus form is considered to gain the same benefits as the Protean Discipline: Shadow of the Beast. The Crinos form is the battle shape of choice for most Lupines, and it is truly Final Death on two large, hairy legs. Crinos Lupines typically stand between eight and 10 feet tall, with huge fangs and claws, a wolf head, and muscles of steel under a thick fur coat. Mortals (not ghouls) who see a werewolf in Crinos form suffer from a madness called the Delirium; treat this effect the same as Rötschreck, with the addition that those who fail to resist it forget ever seeing the Lupine. Crinos-form Lupines double their Physical Traits and effectively gain Might, to represent their tremendous physical power in this form.

Werewolves heal at an amazing rate. They regenerate one non-aggravated wound level every five minutes of game time, and they heal aggravated wounds at the rate of one per day. Only silver, fire and the natural weaponry of other supernatural creatures inflict aggravated damage on Lupines. Furthermore, all Lupines possess a quality called Rage, the primal ferocity that fuels their hunting spirit. Rage Traits may be spent to gain extra actions in a turn, like Celerity, at a cost of one Rage Trait per action; a Rage Trait may also be spent to heal back one health level instantly when a Lupine is Incapacitated, allowing them to fight on through terrible wounds. Each Lupine typically possesses between one and three Rage Traits at a time, and he regains Rage whenever injured, humiliated or otherwise subjected to extreme pain or negative physical or emotional stress.

In addition to Rage and their regenerative capabilities, Lupines can call on spirits to grant them mystical powers; the Storyteller should feel free allow these effects to mimic vampiric Disciplines (for ease of reference) or generate entirely new results, so long as she keeps in mind the age, role and general affinity of the Lupine in question. For instance, a young city werewolf might be able to call on electricity spirits to short out a building's power, while a rural Lupine could call on wind spirits to summon a cloudburst. Likewise, a werewolf scout would have powers related to stealth and spying, while a warrior would have spirit gifts better suited to battle. Lupines fuel these powers with aspiritual energy called Gnosis, which is regained through bargaining with spirits or long periods of meditation.

Werewolves are as susceptible to frenzy as Kindred, and they must check for berserk fury (frenzy) and fox frenzy (so called because the Lupine flees her fear; equivalent of Rötschreck) at the same times and difficulties that Kindred do.

⚫ Lupines can apparently travel invisibly through the spirit world, appearing from thin air to attack their enemies and even surprising unwary users of the Auspex power of Psychic Projection caught wandering lost the spirit plane. (Note: In the spirit world Lupines have no silver cords, since they are actually physically "there;" this does not stop them from attacking the silver cord of a Kindred, however. Should a Lupine and a Kindred attack each other in the Umbra, the Kindred bids Mental Traits and the Lupine bids Physical Traits.)

Laws of the Night

200

MAGI

WEAVERS ON THE LOOM OF REALITY

Few things are as frightening as the unknown, which explains why most elders are terrified of wizards. Even the Tremere cannot comprehend the ways of the mortal mystics, and Kindred who know of their existence give willworkers a wide berth. No physical match for Kindred or Lupines, most wizards instead hide in plain sight, couching their magic in bizarre coincidences and subtle shifts of fortune. When roused to battle, however, willworkers can call up results that astound the most jaded elders. A powerful mage on the warpath can warp time, alter gravity, shred minds like confetti or burn vampires to a crisp with little more than a disapproving glare. Wizards seem to come in as many stripes as there are views on magic: from faith healers to techno-wizards to Hermetic scholars to demonic priests and native shamans, the actual method a wizard uses to practice magic seems to mean less than his belief in that method. Fortunately for the Kindred, many of these diverse factions seem to be locked in a shadow war very similar to the Jyhad, which means most willworkers pay little attention to any vampires that cross their path.

Most Kindred have no dealings with wizards, and they like to keep it that way. However, the Tremere have an uneasy truce with the sect of wizards they used to belong to, the Order of Hermes. While open feuding is a thing of the past, the two sides spy on each other constantly, and subtle traps are not uncommon between the two sides. Demon wizards called the Nephandi sometimes forge dark alliances with Setites or Sabbat on the Path of Evil Revelations, while their opposite number, the Celestial Chorus, has spent centuries battling the Lasombra and others who would pervert the church to their own ends. Shapeshifting witches known as the Verbena have been known to consort to with the Gangrel from time to time, and their form of pagan blood- magic has been whispered in the halls of Elysium for centuries. Finally, some Kindred with influence in cutting-edge technology and at the highest levels of government have long heard rumors about a gigantic wizard "Technocracy" that supposedly has its hooks deep into the world power structure. Naturally, the elders scoff at such rumors, claiming such a takeover would have required hundreds of years of highly secret manipulations that somehow also managed to escape their notice, and surely not even the most powerful wizards could accomplish such a monumental feat of magical treachery... could they?

While vampires are seldom aware of the difference, wizards are actually divided into two types: mages, who know True Magic and thus bend reality at will, and hedge wizards, mortals who are only partially Awakened to the truth of reality and thus can only work magic in static, defined ways. Complete rules for hedge magic and playing hedge wizards can be found in Laws of the Hunt and the Laws of the Hunt Player's Guide. Hedge wizards are the most commonly encountered type of wizard, and while they can grow to be very powerful indeed, they are small fry next to the freestyle reality- warping talents of their mage brethren. Mages are extremely powerful beings, and they should be used only as Narrator characters. However, if used appropriately, mage allies can be excellent sources for mystic artifacts and contacts for arcane lore, as well as the start of any number of interesting story-lines. Mage enemies, on the other hand, are a challenge to even a hardened group of elders, and they can present a refreshing change of antagonists in a long-running game. Storytellers who add mages and hedge wizards to their chronicles should remember the following basic guidelines:

All wizards have high Willpower Traits; bending reality demands no less. Most mages also have a high number of Mental and Social Traits, as well as many Abilities related to their style of magic (Computer and Science for a technowizard, Brawl and Meditation for a wandering yogi). Ultimately wizards are mortal, however -they heal as slowly as mortals do unless they employ some form of healing magic,

Allies and Antagonists

201

FORBIDDEN NECTAR:

VITAE FROM SUPERNATURAL SOURCES

Sooner or later, Kindred in contact with other supernatural forces will try drinking their blood, whether due to urgent need, simple curiosity or any number of other reasons. Likewise, sometimes vampires put the bite on what they believe to be a normal mortal, only to discover-too late-that they are supping on something else entirely. Some twisted Kindred may even become addicted to a specific "vintage" of supernatural vitae (e.g., Malkavians to faerie blood, thrill-seeking Licks to Lupine vitae), and he will go to great lengths to get his fix. Most of these Kindred are hunted down by the very prey they enjoy. Whatever the case, Narrators should consult the following guidelines as to what befalls the poor fool who drinks the vitae of a supernatural creature.

Note: Unless the Storyteller says otherwise, the rule of vitae usage is "last in, last out," a Kindred who ingests a Trait of fae blood, for example, must cycle through all the Blood Traits currently in his system before he can spend the fae blood that is plaguing him.

Lupine/Other Shapeshifter

Each Blood Trait taken counts double (a Kindred who takes two Blood Traits from a Lupine effectively gains four Blood Traits); however, the vampire must check to resist frenzy immediately. Until the blood is spent, she suffers the Negative Trait: Impatient, and is generally full of jittery energy. At the Storyteller's discretion, certain rare or powerful shifters may grant vampires temporary levels of Potence or Celerity as well.

Mage/Hedge Wizard

Storyteller's discretion; the vampire may hallucinate, experience wrack- ing pains, have a sudden flash of insight or find that nothing out of the ordinary occurs. Storytellers are encouraged to base any special results on the power and type of wizard in question.

• Wraith/Risen

If the wraith is Embodied, the blood tastes foul and is useless for feeding or fueling Disciplines. Otherwise, the vampire has nothing to bite on. Risen blood has been described as a mix of curdled milk, vinegar and embalming fluid, and may (at Storyteller discretion) cause the Kindred to vomit up twice as many Blood Traits as she drank from the Risen, not to mention angering the Risen who was bitten.

• Changeling

The Kindred immediately gains an active derangement of Storyteller's choice, which lasts until one hour after the last Blood Trait from the changeling has left the vampire's system. Vampires may also perceive the hidden world of changelings during this time, although most vampires will believe such visions to be nothing more than hallucinations. (Note: Drinking faerie blood may be enough to place a vampire under enchant- ment. See The Shining Host for more on those who fall under faerie enchantment.)

• The Reborn

Mummy blood is described as tasting stale or like dust, but it will provide nourishment and fuel Disciplines. At Storyteller discretion, the vampire may

Laws of the Night

262

be be briefly assaulted by a flood of memories, which will continue to hover on the fringes of his consciousness until the blood is gone. Mummies can die from being drained, and should a Kindred be unable to control himself, there will be an unpleasant enemy coming for him.

Numinous Mortal

At the Storyteller's discretion, vampires who drink the blood of those with True Faith may take damage from such sacrilege, if the Faith in question is strong enough. Vampires who ingest the blood of mortals with Psychic Phenomena may experience uncontrollable bursts of the mortal's talent until a night after the last of the psychic's blood is spent; these flashes grow worse the more agitated the vampire becomes. Thus, a vampire who drinks from a telekinetic may suddenly find windows shattering or objects flying about if she becomes upset, while one who ingests vitae from a telepath may find the meaningless surface thoughts of others constantly distracting him. Narrators have final say on the times and game effects of such psychic outbursts, but they should always be far more disruptive than useful, and vampires who drink from psychics too often risk gaining permanent derangements.

and they die if they are injured past Incapacitated by lethal or by aggravated damage. Wizards may also be blood bound normally.

Narrators playing the role of a mage should work with the Storyteller to determine a certain number of prepared effects they are capable of, as well as how these effects can be adjudicated during the game if conflicts arise: Mental Challenges for telepathic spells, Static Physical Challenges for shapeshifting, a Fair Escape for teleportation, etc. Try to use common sense for all effects and (most of all) keep them fair for everyone involved-even an archmage doesn't have an absolute strangle- hold on reality, and players will become unhappy quickly if the Narrator's mage seems to be an invincible, omniscient foe. Remember also that a mage's style of magic dictates the general type rituals and effects he uses: a pagan witch may cast runes or dance widdershins in a circle, while a technology wizard might write special software on his computer or design a prototype laser cannon.

Mages are limited in the scope of their magics by a mysterious factor known as Paradox-when a mage performs obvious reality-altering acts in front of mortal witnesses (ghouls don't count), any number of odd things tend to happen, their severity depending on the grandness of the alteration being attempted. The spell may succeed while the mage suffers some bizarre physical or mental side effect (such as seeing things inside out or suffering intense pain), the spell may simply fail outright, or it may even backfire on the unfortunate mage. This is why mages tend to work their magic subtly, or at least wait until there are only supernatural observers in the area before unleashing raw magical power, better safe than sorry\!

Since their static powers have long been recognized by folklore, hedge wizards have a bit more leeway with Paradox, and they do not typically suffer from its harsh side effects. If they attempt dramatic magic in front of mortal witnesses, their spells may fail, but they rarely suffer any worse setback than that. (There are some perks to being lesser wizards at times.)

At the Narrator's discretion, Kindred with the Thamanergy Discipline may attempt

to counter magic thrown at them, provided they are aware of the incoming spell and they take no other action that turn. This "countermagic" is typically a Mental Challenge, although it may be changed to fit individual circumstances at the Narrator's discretion.

Allies and Antagonisis

203

Vampires can never learn wizard magic of any kind; they are confined to Thaumaturgy, Necromancy and their other Disciplines. Millennia of blood bonds, Embraces, telepathic mind-rape and other attempts to steal the secrets of magic have ultimately gained nothing. Magic is tied to the life force itself, and that is something the Kindred can never truly possess.

THE RESTLESS DEAD

REMINDERS OF SINS FORGOTTEN

Under the grim glow of the Final Nights, many humans die with their dreams unfulfilled, their hearts aching to express their love one last time or to strike down those who wronged them during their lives. Many more, taken abruptly from life by accident or violence, cannot accept the very fact of their death, and they seek to affect the living still, to bring some closure to the life they had just begun to understand. Indeed, by their very existence, all vampires eventually bring about the deaths of dozens if not hundreds of vessels, and the wheels of the Jyhad have often been greased with the blood of countless mortals, making the vampires natural targets for the wrath of those who call themselves wraiths.

Not every mortal lingers on as a wraith, but all those that do are anchored to the world by Passions (emotions driving them beyond death) and Fetters (people, places or things important to them in life), and even an innocent Kindred who somehow interferes with the things that a wraith holds dear can find herself the target of his ghostly powers. Wraiths are capable of all the classic touches of hauntings-telekinetics, possession, tainted dreams, apparitions-and many more tricks as well; a haunted vampire may see ghastly things out of the corner of her eye, find her personal effects in the oddest places or hear her name whispered from a vacant room. However, Kindred on the bad side of a wraith seldom even know the true source of their persecution, often believing they are going mad instead.

Even if they know of their existence, few vampires have much to do with wraiths, supposing-usually rightly-that the affairs of the dead have little place for creatures such as they. Wraiths themselves are barred from manifesting more directly in the Skinlands (the world where people still have skin) by an ancient spiritual barrier called the Shroud. Most of the time, they are confined to a dark, decaying reflection of the living world known as the Shadowlands. Only the perverse Giovanni clan appears to have much interest in wraiths, and what little the other clans have found out about the Restless seems to indicate that all ghosts fear and loathe the Necromancers, avoiding them whenever possible.

Complete rules for wraiths in live-action can be found in Oblivion; what follows is a basic overview of wraithly capabilities.

•Wraiths "feed" on emotion like vampires subsist on blood, and they use this energy to power their supernatural abilities. Characters in great passion-frenzy included- may actually strengthen a wraithly foe. It takes a great effort for wraiths to affect the living lands, but harming those who dare to travel to the Shadowlands (such as those lost while using Psychic Projection or certain powers of Necromancy) is frightfully easy for them.

Wraiths are invisible to vampires typically, although Auspex may detect them. Given their incorporeality, wraiths cannot be attacked by vampires through conventional means; Kindred have a better chance by attacking a wraith's Fetters or using some of the powers of the Thaumaturgy or Necromancy Disciplines. For their part, wraiths may possess mortals or attack Kindred telekinetically if they wish to damage them directly, although such efforts are extremely draining.

The Restless can usually be found around any area which was the site of a great deal of emotional trauma (battlefields, murder scenes), although areas of light emotion sometimes attract them as well. In such places, the Shroud is weaker than

Laws of the Night

€64

normal, making it easier for wraiths to affect the Skinlands. Note: Mortals (exclud- ing ghouls) who see a wraith or witness obvious wraithly powers in action suffer from fright attacks similar to the Delirium (see above), eventually denying the incident or rationalizing it away. Such is the power-the need of the living to deny the dead, and thus deny their own mortality as well.

Giovanni scholars have encountered two rare types of wraiths in their studies. The first are dark spirits who seem bent on inflicting misery to anyone they contact; other ghosts seem to fear these phantoms and refer to them as Spectres. The second is extremely rare, consisting of wraiths who manage to re-inhabit their bodies and walk the Skinlands again. Dead as they are, these wraiths-called Risen-are often mistaken for vampires by less learned observers, and they have been known to display unique powers and amazing devotion to their wraithly Passions; indeed, some misguided hunters have realized their mistake only after an irritated Risen plucked the stake from its heart and continued on its way... FAERIES

IMMORTAL DREAMS IN MORTAL FLESH

Long ago, the world was a different place, filled with legendary heroes and mythical beasts. That time has since faded into antiquity, but not everyone has forgotten it. Certain Kindred whisper of faeries, mystical creatures of dream who seek to uphold the ancient ways of magic and chivalry, and who live secret lives hidden from the sight of mortal and Kindred alike. Though few vampires these days have much truck with the wild ones, those that do tend to come back changed for the experience. Those individuals report that faeries have changed little over the centuries, save for the fact that they now adopt human disguises to protect themselves from the prying eyes of the mortal world. Indeed, most Kindred walk by faeries without ever realizing their true nature, and only those knowledgeable in the unique glamours of the fae have any chance of piercing their masks against their will. However, when a faerie does choose to reveal her true form, her beauty is second only to the tremendous power she wields. Many vampires are left weeping blood tears at a faerie's presence, the presence of such magic and innocence filling them with such poignant longing for their mortal days that even the most jaded elder cannot deny. Some Kindred even succumb to madness in the wake of a faerie's visit, unable to stand their unlives any longer.

Kindred scholars have noticed that faeries are typically most active around the times of major festivals and holidays, such as Halloween or Mardi Gras, and some Toreador claim they tend to congregate around centers of great creative talent regardless of the season; some theorists even speculate that faeries somehow draw power from this creativity. However, as with anything concerning these wild children of fantasy, nothing is ever certain. For their part, faeries in general tend to find the deathly aura of vampires uncomfortable, although some notable connections between the two cultures do exist. More urbane Nosferatu occasionally take tea and trade gossip with quiet, observant fae known as sluagh, and the Malkavian clan in general seems to have a special bond with the wild ones, and both sides are forever trading pranks and tall tales. Toreador vampires sometimes fall under the spell of a particular faerie's unearthly beauty, or find themselves competing for the attention of a talented mortal who happens to have a faerie patron. Ravnos and Malkavians also sometimes go in search of fae blood, though the former is typically far more savage about it than the latter. Faeries come in as many different varieties as there are legends of the world, from noble lords to savage warriors to charming vagabonds to cunning tricksters, and a vampire who encounters faeries is encouraged to remember that they are as wild and capricious as the primal dreams they originated from. More on faeries can be found in The Shining Host; a brief summary of pertinent faerie traits follows:

Allies and Antagonists

• Faeries are typically invisible to mortals and supernaturals alike, appearing as nothing more than ordinary mortals, but a vampire using Aura Perception may detect their true form with a successful challenge. Those who witness a faerie's true form or her magic tend to forget the encounter, however. Treat this memory loss like the effects of Delirium, except subjects do not flee in fear, and only supernatural creatures may resist this amnesia-mortals cannot.

• Faeries are mortal, like wizards, and they take accordingly long amounts of time to heal unless they use special healing magics. They are also mortally vulnerable to any lethal or aggravated damage that reduces them below the Incapacitated health level. Faeries may be blood bound normally, although it tends to weaken their faerie spirits dangerously. They seem to have an allergy to cold iron (not steel or other alloys), and they take aggravated damage from that substance; very, very few vampires know of this last weakness, however.

Faeries thrive on creative energy, which they call Glamour, and they use it to power their various magical talents. Inspired artwork or dedicated artists might be worth much Glamour, while pop material would have very little. Faeries are capable of a very broad range of magical effects, but they tend to focus on illusions, shapeshifting, emotion control and making a quick escape. Faeries may even draw others into their secret world by infusing another being with Glamour, but the complexities of their chimerical world require The Shining Host to adjudicate properly. (Suffice it to say such enchantments are the basis for Rip Van Winkle legends and the like, and that some Kindred who are "stolen away" never return...)

Faeries fight boredom and anti-creativity (which they call Banality) actively, and they avoid people and places that tend to attract such negative forces-like IRS inspectors, office cubicles, overbearing teachers or prisons. Fear of Banality is also the reason most fae avoid vampires, whose deathly existences tend to attract much suffering and negative emotion over time. Only Malkavians, Ravnos on the Path of Paradox and Toreador with real artistic talent tend to have low enough Banality to offset this natural disadvantage, and even then, most fae are extremely cautious about dealing with the notoriously predatory Kindred.

Illusions created by the Chimerstry Discipline are actually dangerous to faeries; an illusory wall presents special difficulty to them, and an illusory gun actually harms them. In their terms, Chimerstry creations are chimerically real to changelings, and they can even inflict chimerical damage on a changeling's faerie form. The same holds true even if the changeling knows she is looking at an illusion-another reason faeries avoid the Ravnos clan if at all possible. For their part, the Ravnos are completely unaware of this side effect, and the faeries intend to keep it that way. UNITED UNDER THE FINAL NIGHTS: CROSSOVER POWERS

In many games, Kindred will encounter at least a few of the different supernatural creatures described previously, and in some games, players may even be allowed to play characters from these other denizens of the shadows. While such games can be a wonderful chance to roleplay the interaction between the different hidden cultures in the Gothic-Punk world, it is likewise inevitable that clashes will occur between character types as players use different supernatural powers against each other. Therefore, Storytellers and Narrators alike should be prepared to adjudicate what happens when the Gifts/Spheres/ Arcanoi/ Arts/Numina/ etc. of other supernaturals come in conflict with vampiric Disciplines. Before the nitty-gritty rules of such adjudication are put forth, however, there are a few basic points to remember:

Check the FAQs Mind's Eye Theatre has evolved considerably since its creation, and many common crossover questions are answered in various FAQ sections of the main rulebooks. Furthermore, the Mind's Eye Theatre Journal is

Laws of the Night

200

updating and expanding material for the various games of Mind's Eye Theatre constantly, providing another source for rules clarification.

Be Fair Players work hard to improve their characters, and it's only fair to allow players to try out new uses of their abilities if they can provide a good explanation. However, if one player's application of a supernatural power would give them an unbeatable lock over another type of character, don't be afraid to change that power or even disallow its use entirely. It is rarely a good idea to let a player purchase an Advanced power if allowing alienates half the players.

Be Consistent-This guideline goes hand in hand with fairness. If you allow Heightened Senses to detect Lupine invisibility one week, don't reverse that ruling the next week, at least not without first explaining to the players why you did so. "House rules" are part of many games, but weekly changes will make players believe you're simply being arbitrary about their application. Making sure you keep Narrators and players alike updated on any new rules changes or additions will go a long way toward preventing player arguments during game time.

Don't Fix What Ain't Broke-Remember when power comparisons are necessary and when they aren't-crossover rules should not apply unless the two powers conflict directly. A Tremere casting a spell on a changeling who's trying to magically alter the color of the vampire's jacket do not need power comparison rules, nor do a mage and a werewolf hurling fire at each other-the latter instance might result in two injuries, but one ball of flame would not "cancel out" the other. However, if the Tremere and the faerie are both trying to control a target's mind, or the werewolf is conjuring water to douse the mage's fireball, then it's time to use some method of power comparison. Of course, if one character's power specifically states that it cancels/counters another supernatural ability (it happens), don't let other crossover rules interfere. Kindred and Garou in particular have battled each other long enough to have some powers built this way.

Relax\!-Cooperation is the most valuable key to working out the details in a crossover chronicle. If your players understand that no one type of character is automatically stronger than another, and that you are doing your best to keep things playable for everyone, then there's no problem you won't be able to tackle. If your players keep shouting out their differences or feel one group has an unstoppable edge, however, even tiny situations can become agonizing to resolve. When stepping in to mediate crossover situations, keep tempers cool (with time-outs if necessary) and make sure that everyone remembers the point of the game is to have fun, not to see if Bocon the vampire can counter Bezel the werewolf's latest Gift.

That said, there are no actual lists of power comparisons in this chapter; such lists would require an exhaustive amount of space and likely become inaccurate with future rules updates anyway. Rather, what follows are two ways of looking at how supernatural powers can be compared across game lines; both methods are strictly optional, although most groups will tend to choose one or the other. Of course, if you decide to use one of these methods, make sure your players know which you have chosen so they know where you're coming from when handing down rules adjudications.

Method \#1-"Case Law" Comparisons

This method consists of considering supernatural clashes on a case-by-case basis as they occur in the game and deciding what ruling makes the most sense based on those instances. This is not to say that you the Storyteller change your ruling in every instance (remember the consistency guideline), but rather that once an agreement has been reached regarding how given powers interact, that ruling becomes the standard for the game. Doing so does not bar you from making rulings on your own - if you foresee a problem, by all means settle it before the game if you can-but by saving most of the decisions until play begins, you allow the players a chance to use their creativity

Allies and Antagonists

in matching powers with each other, instead of making judgments based on raw power alone. Using this method lets the players feel they have a real say in how their powers work in the game, which in turn boosts morale and encourages them to experiment with new things. Likewise, if they disagree with a ruling, players know they have room to discuss it with their Storyteller. Of course, once a ruling has been made, it's your duty to make sure the players and Narrators know what their new standard is, otherwise you'll wind up working out the same problems over and over again.

On the down side, the "case law" method can be very demanding at first, since it requires a good deal of player understanding, and for Storytellers and Narrators to work out disputes as they come along. However, the ultimate result- a game customized to the players and characters involved-makes it time well spent. For their part, players should understand the demands placed on Narrators by this method, as well as the value of compromise required case-by-case. Method \#1 generally tends to work better with smaller troupes, where more individual attention can be paid to the players, but with sufficient support from the players (especially the Narrators) it can work with troupes of any size.

Method \#2 - Relative Power Levels

Using this method, supernatural abilities are judged by power level alone; if two characters clash supernaturally, both players declare the power level they're using (out of character, of course), with the character who possesses the greater overall power level taking precedence in a given situation. If two characters are evenly matched, the result is a test using whatever Traits are appropriate to the powers at work. The chart lists the basis for power level comparison for each type of supernatural creature. Note that the overall power level of a character is used for comparison with this method-a character who has earned the Advanced levels of a Discipline is considered to use the Basic powers of that Discipline better than another vampire who only has the Basic levels of that Discipline.

This method is a very clear and efficient way of settling most supernatural disputes, and it can save Narrators a lot of time in larger games especially. However, it can also make some players feel helpless to battle characters who possess superior powers, and it tends to limit player creativity a bit when it comes to the application of their supernatural abilities. Based as it is strictly on powers earned, it can also invite abuse from unscrupulous players seeking to min-max their characters into war machines or unstoppable manipulators, so Narrators need to keep an ear to the ground and step in if players are taking advantage of this system's elegant simplicity. Players who take advantage of their out-of-character knowledge of another character's overall power level are cheating, plain and simple.

Remember, don't use this for clashes within the same character type\! The Disciplines of the Kindred are written to be balanced in respect to each other, as are the powers of the other supernatural groups; only when a Kindred fights a Garou, a faerie battles a wraith, etc. should you implement the relative power levels method of comparison. Such are the perils of battling the unknown....

Example of Play: Dice, pooka trickster, is using the Basic Chicanery Art of Veiled Eyes (invisibility) to escape an unruly crowd, while Amber the Toreador is using Basic Auspex, Heightened Senses, to catch him. Overall, Dice has Advanced Chicanery, while Amber has only Basic Auspex. Using this method, Dice cannot be detected at all by Amber (no test is involved), since his overall Chicanery rating is higher than her overall Auspex score. However, if they were reversed and Dice had only Basic Chicanery and Amber had Advanced Auspex, then she would automatically detect him (again, no test involved). If both of them had the same overall power level (both had Intermediate levels overall in their respective powers, for example), a test of some kind would determine which power wins-in this case a Mental Challenge.

Lives of the Night

268

I JUST PUT THE BITE ON \[INSERT CRITTER HERE\]. WHAT HAPPENS?" The Embrace was designed for mortals and mortals alone; after all, if it was possible to combine supernatural elements with a quick slip of the fangs, regular Kindred would have been replaced by undead super-hybrids long ago. However, for the sake of general clarity and the few rare exceptions, the following chart gives the result of a Kindred attempting to Embrace a given class of prey.

Note: Storytellers who intend to change any of these guidelines should first consider the impact creating such a character would have on the chronicle as a whole: no matter how good a reason there might be for the existence of such characters, they are universally outcasts who are almost inevitably destined to bring ruin on themselves and anyone close to them. No matter who they used to be, such pathetic creatures are invariably ostracized or put out of their misery or even sought after for vivisection\!-in short order. Finally, other players may feel resentful of a character who is able to use powers of more than one supernatural group, no matter how wretched a social life such a character may have, and players who feel unfairly outclassed or that the Storyteller is favoring a particular character seldom remain players for long.

Type of Being

Garou

Other shapeshifter Mage/ Hedge Wizard

Wraith

Risen

Changeling Mummy

Result of Embrace

Static Gnosis Challenge: on a win, the Garou dies quickly and painlessly; on a tie, death comes slowly and painfully; on a loss and with Storyteller permission, a vampire/ Garou Abomination is created. (Willpower may be spent to retest this challenge.) Such creatures lose their natural regeneration and all werewolf societal benefits, but they may continue to use any Gifts they possess, as well as learn Disciplines and spend blood like other Kindred. (Note: Kindred and shifters alike hunt such creatures on sight; be prepared for a short, lonely existence.)

Dead fuzzy, unless the Storyteller says otherwise; see Garou listing for some possible effects.

Vampire; Embrace destroys all magical powers forever.

Can't; wraiths are incorporeal. (Duh.)

Big gulp of embalming fluid and one angry Risen.

Limp faerie corpse.

No vampire; mummy goes into death cycle instead. (She/ he will be back later to get you for that.)

Ghoul/ Revenant Vampire; all previous Disciplines retained, but such

powers also count against the initial three Disciplines granted at character creation.

Kinfolk/Kinain Other supernatural relative

Gypsy

Vampire.

Vampire.

Numinous Mortal Vampire; previous Numina are lost.

Allies and Antagonists

200

Abilities 93

specializations 86

Anarchs 254 Archetypes 73

Armor 206

Attributes 79

Mental Traits 83 Negative 85 physical traits 80

Negative 81 social Traits 82

Negative 83

Backgrounds 105

Blood 106

Blood Bond 211

Bloodlines 56

B

Index

Daughters of cacophony 56

salubri 57

samedi 58

C

camarilla, the 16

challenges 192

Adjudication 194 Bonus Traits 196 Initial Bid 192 Negative Traits 194 order of challenges 196 overbidding 194 Relenting 196

Retests 195

Rock-paper-scissors 193 simple Tests 195 static challenges 195

Testing 193

Using Traits 192

character conversion 123

prev ious MET Editions 123 Tabletop 125 character creation 62

Advantages 67

choosing Abilities 67 choosing Backgrounds 68 choosing Disciplines 68

Attributes 66

choosing Attributes 66 choosing traits 67 Inspiration 63

clan 63

Nature and Demeanor 63

Last Touches 68

Blood Traits 68

Derangements 71 flaws 71 Free Traits 71 Merits 72

Morality Traits 70 Negative Traits 70 virtue Traits 69 willpower Traits 68 Morality paths 65 spark of Life 72

clans 26

Assamite 46

Assamite antitribu 47 Brujah 30 Brujah antitribu 31 followers of set 48 Gangrel so

gangrel antitribu 51 Giovanni 52 Lasombra 42

Lasombra antitribu. 43 Malkavian 32 Malkavian antitribu 33 Nosferatu 34

Nosferatu antitribu 35

Laws of the Night

Ravnos 54

Ravnos antitribu 55 serpents of the Light 49 Toreador 36

Toreador antitribu 37 Tremere 38

Tremere antitribu 39 Tzimisce 44

Ventrue 40

ventrue antitribu 41

combat 200

Fair Escape 201

surprise 200

Lure of flames 178 Movement of the Mind 180) path of Blood 177 path of conjuring 182 Rituals 185 vicissitude 188

E

Experience 122

Experience chart 124

Movement in combat 201

Ranged combat 206

Faeries 265

Frenzy 208

9

generation chart 19, 95

D

Derangements 214 Diablerie 215 Disciplines 132

Animalism 134 Auspex 137 celerity 140 chimerstry 142 Dementation 144 Dominate 146

Fortitude 149 Melpominee 150 Necromancy 151

Ash path 153 Bone path 155 Rituals 156

sepulchre path 152 obeah 158

obfuscate 160

obtenebration 163

potence 165

presence 167

protean 169

Quietus 171 serpentis 172 Thanatosis 174 Thaumaturgy 176

Hands of Destruction 183

Ghouls 20, 255 Golconda 210

Health 198

H

Aggravated wounds 200 Bashing/Lethal Damage 199 Healing 199

Torpor 199

Hunters 20, 256

Arcanum, the 257 Inquisition, The 257

US GOUT. 257

Lexicon 21-23

Magi 261

L

M

Hedge wizards 261 Merits and flaws 113

Mental 116 physical 112 social 118

supernatural 119

Allies and Antagonists

Mob scene 196 Morality paths 74

Blood 76

Bones 77

Humanity 75

Metamorphosis 77

primogen 219 prince a18

Scourge 220 seneschal 219 sheriff 219

whips 219

Night 78

paradox 78

Typhon 79

Morality Traits III

P

prestation 220

R

status 216

T

Torpor 199

Traditions, The 17 True faith 210

Rötschreck 209

sabbat, the 18

S

creation Rites 224

Monomacy 225 Rituals aaa

status 221

stations 218

Harpies 219

Keeper of Elysium 219

virtue Traits 108

conscience/conviction 109

courage 110

self-control/instinct 109 virtue Tests 108

weapons 201

W

weapon Examples 203

werewolves 258

willpower 107

wraiths 264

Laws of the Night

Mind's Eye Theatre

LAWS

of the

"Night

It's a New Night

Clans. Bloodlines. Disciplines. Character Creation. Systems. Storytelling. Antagonists. Updated and revised. All in one place.

The Rules Have changed

Laws of the Night is a complete pocket guide for playing and Storytelling Masquerade. Designed for quick reference and in-game use, it collects under one cover everything you need to start playing.

Let the Midnight Dance begin....

WHITE WOLE GAME STUDIO

WORLD OF DARKNESS

GAMES FOR MATURE MINDS

ISBN 1-56504-589-0 WW5013 $19.95 U.S. 51995

Eyle

Mind's Ene Theatre

9781565 045897

PRINTED IN CANADA