Camarilla vampire, Daron begins play with three levels of Disciplines, and after looking over the choices available to her, Alyson selects one level of each of the Brujah clan Disciplines: Alacrity (Celerity), Prowess (Potence), and Awe (Presence). She reasons that the first two are a legacy of her more violent days, while Daron has developed the last just recently, when she began working on improving her skills at communicating with others.

Finally, Daron's Camarilla status gives Alyson five levels of Backgrounds to spend. She takes some time on this section - Daron has recently split with her violent past, and that means she probably hasn't had much time to build up resources of her own just yet. To reflect this shift, Alyson chooses one level of Contacts (informants who remained loyal to her) and Street Influence. Then she asks Brian if she can take three levels of Generation Background, since she needs Storyteller approval before doing so. (This would start her at 10th generation). Getting a better sense of her character's history now, Alyson explains that Daron was the childe of Jonas, a moderately powerful Brujah, who has taken her new change of heart rather badly and now does his best to make her unlife as unpleasant as possible. Her lower generation only makes matters worse, as it increases his shame and the sense that she's flaunting the responsibilities of her blood. Never one to stand in the way of a player making unlife more difficult for her character in an interesting fashion (and knowing a 10th generation character won't upset game balance), Brian gives her permission to take the three levels of Generation, and Alyson is finished this stage.

STEP FOUR: FINISHING TOUCHES

Alyson must now record Daron's starting Willpower and Blood Traits. Looking at the Generation chart on p. 95, she sees that 10th generation Kindred begin with two Willpower Traits, have a maximum of five Willpower Traits, and also have a maximum of 13 Blood Traits. In addition, as 10th generation, Daron can only spend one Blood Trait per turn, and can only gain up to five levels in one Ability. Looking further, Alyson sees she must perform a Simple Test with Brian to determine how many Blood Traits she begins play with; he shoots scissors, she shoots paper. Curses\! Daron will have to begin play with only four Blood Traits, which means she will probably have to hunt sometime during her first session but is otherwise all right.

Next on the list are Virtue Traits; as a follower of Humanity, Daron has the Virtues Courage, Conscience and Self-Control. She starts with one Trait in each category automatically, and has seven extra Traits to spend among her Virtues; Alyson distributes them evenly, spending three Traits on Courage, two on Con- science and two on Self-Control (for a final total of four, three, and three Traits in each, respectively). This allocation represents Daron's level nature and the great determination which she applies to her tasks. Alyson would like to improve Conscience some more, but that will have to wait for later. Averaging her Con- science and Self-Control ratings, she records her starting Morality Traits: 3. Thus, Daron has a 3 rating on the Humanity Path, not bad, but not wonderful either- Alyson reasons that there's still too much of the warrior in Daron, and she'll have to work hard if she wants to raise her Humanity further, which suits Alyson just fine.

Alyson now has the option to choose Flaws and Negative Traits for her character. Her Clan Disadvantage gives her with a Violent Negative Trait, which she records at this time, although she receives no additional Traits for it, since it is part of a Clan Disadvantage. Looking over the other Negative Traits, she gains an extra Trait each by choosing Tactless and Impatient-try as she might, Daron sometimes cuts a little close to the bone with her observations, and she hasn't quite realized yet that real social change doesn't happen overnight. Nothing else seems to suit her in

Laws of the Night

128

that area, so she looks over the Flaws next, finally selecting Sire's Resentment (reflecting Jonas's dislike of her) and an Intolerance: Tremere at one Trait each. Brian interrupts at this point and asks her to justify such a broad Intolerance, and Alyson explains that the coterie she used to run with had a bad run in with a Tremere chantry at one point, and after that she's harbored ill will toward the clan. Elaborating further, she tells of how one of her first meetings among the Kindred was with a Tremere who experimented on derelicts and other lost souls, and how she's held a strong dislike for the clan's scholarly detachment ever since. Impressed and satisfied that it won't disrupt the overall game, Brian permits the Flaw, though he warns her that it may land her in a bit of trouble down the line. Alyson declines to take a derangement or trade in a Morality Trait at this point, and so it's time to spend her Free Traits.

Thanks to the extra Flaws and Negative Traits she's taken, Alyson now has a total of nine Free Traits to spend improving Daron's statistics. Rationalizing that she would have to be plenty tough to survive her past battles and her sire's current ire, Alyson spends three Traits to purchase the Basic Potence Discipline: Might, giving Daron an extra physical edge. She also spends a Trait each to purchase an extra Physical Trait: Vigorous and a Brawl: Aikido Ability specialization, rounding out Daron's already formidable fighting skills. Alyson has four Free Traits left to spend, and she decides to take an extra Social Trait: Commanding to represent Daron's ability to organize people for a task. With her final three Free Traits, Alyson purchases the Merit: Iron Will, reflecting Daron's fiercely independent nature and also helping to explain how she got out from under her sire's influence with relative ease. Brian takes a look at her sheet, making sure all the numbers add up, and approves it.

STEP FIVE: SPARK OF LIFE

All the game mechanics, Traits, powers and skills are now laid out. Alyson has developed a much better image of Daron than when she first started, but there are still some things not covered, things that can't be captured by rules and character sheets; specifically, the details that make Daron live and breathe to the other players. Alyson has to think about ways to convey her character's personality to the other players, to create a host of little identifying quirks that come with roleplaying her. Does Daron wear the rebellious garb of so many Brujah, or does she have her own sense of style? Does she still speak with a Southern accent, or has time erased it? Does she crack her knuckles when she's impatient, or sing softly when she's happy? When she walks, does she display ladylike grace or simply get where she's going as quickly as possible? There are countless subtleties that can be added to make a character seem more real, and which make for an entertaining and memorable personality for everyone in a game to interact with. More character history also can't hurt-Alyson has already gone beyond a stereotypical Brujah to create an intriguing past, but more detail is still possible. Did her mortal family approve of her crusading, or did they disown her for her actions? Where did she first meet Jonas? What specific event caused her to change from a warrior to a protector, and what other friends did she lose when she made that decision? What allies did she make? What goals does she have in this city, and how does she plan to attain them? Does she view the Embrace as a curse, or merely another means to her ends? Exploring all of these questions and more will help Alyson further define Daron and her vampiric existence, but for now Alyson is satisfied with the progress she's made, and she knows that a character is only full realized once play begins. After she and Brian work out the details of her introduction at the next game session, Alyson's all ready to begin, and Daron will soon walk under the looming clouds of the Final Nights.

Character Creation and Trails

120

Peter's hurried exit played perfectly into Donata's plans. With a careful breath, she blew out the candles - the ones that she'd secretly replaced after Peter had given her the originals with the explanation about the ritual and allowed herself a satisfied smile. Running a hand down her dress to smooth the sheer fabric, she straightened, bumping back into Kevin.

"Now that the stuck up prig of a Ventrue is gone, we can discuss the future," Kevin tried lamely. Donata allowed him to wrap his arms around her waist, leaning back a bit - just enough to be seductive without being blatant.

"Of course," Donata blithely continued as Kevin kissed her neck just below her car. "He will be a nuisance... one that will have to be taken care of. But, my dear Kevin, when he finishes his visit with the Warlock, he will certainly have made a few more enemies. If you took care of him... well, I'm sure that the nasty little truth about his involvement with the package could come out, and the prince would be inclined to be lenient to you and your friends. Perhaps a few of you might even be given a bit of recognized domain, as a token of appreciation for destroying such a rogue. Of course, with my position in court, I would have to take over Peter's assets... the sizable improvement would certainly raise my position, and we could work together very well indeed." She bared her throat a bit more, alabaster and poised like a statue. All you need is one drink, and you're well on the road to being mine forever, she thought.

Kevin's fangs hovered at her neck, and then he spoke in return. "You don't need to convince me twice. I've been itching to settle things with him\! Me and a few of the boys could catch him downtown if you send him to meet us. You take his money, I take his blood... sounds like a fair trade to me."

Before Kevin could think matters through any further, Donata turned in his grasp, tugging him closer with a satisfied smile. "A fair trade indeed. We make a peerless pair," she added, prompting Kevin's ego. The intemperate Brujah needed no further prodding. With a growl, he sank his fangs into Donata's neck, convinced that she would do him no harm. She gasped under the pleasant waves of the Kiss, even as Kevin started down the road to total enthrallment.

CHAPTER FOUR: DISCIPLINES

Though vampirism is a curse, the blood of Caine grants great mystical powers to those with the insight and dedication to pursue them. Called Disciplines, these supernatural abilities grant a vampire exceptional powers-incredible strength or speed, preternatural senses, the ability to hide from mortal sight or even stranger powers. Fueled by blood and will, these Disciplines are the hallmarks of a true vampire. Brash neonates may command a few moderate abilities, but the most fearsome vampires combine the strength of their Disciplines with hundreds of years of experience and practice.

Each clan possesses a group of Disciplines that are common among its ranks. These "clan Disciplines" can be unearthed and improved with relative ease. The Disciplines of a particular clan are not the sole limits to a vampire's power, though; in theory, any vampire can develop any Discipline. The cost comes in time, effort and boons owed to instructors. Vampires find that Disciplines outside their clan's strengths are more difficult to learn, harder to improve and often inaccessible without the assistance of a skilled teacher who already knows the Discipline in question. As many of the more mystical and unusual Disciplines are considered proprietary to their clans, most vampires do not have the opportunity to learn the truly unique powers; most never have seen or heard of the Disciplines wielded by some of the independent clans and bloodlines.

Among most of the Children of Caine, there are eight relatively common Disciplines: the powers of Animalism (the ability to communicate with and master beasts), Auspex (heightened sensitivity and supernatural awareness), Celerity (incredible bursts of speed gifted by blood), Dominate (the ability to command another's mind), Fortitude (supernatural resilience, against even fire and sunlight), Obfuscate (clouding of minds, granting disguise and stealth), Potence (vampiric strength) and Presence (preter- natural charisma). The existence of these Disciplines is at least known to all but the rankest fledglings. Certain clans and bloodlines, though, possess their own special Disciplines, including Chimerstry (the ability to conjure illusions and dreaming images), Dementation (influence over passion and madness), Necromancy (control and commerce with the world of the dead and the ghosts therein), Obtenebration (the capacity to unleash spiritual darkness), Protean (the power to shift shape and assume animalistic features), Quietus (a Discipline of bloody assassination), Serpentis (a reptilian and manipulative Discipline from Egyptian lore), Thaumaturgy (the rigorous study of blood magic) and

Laws of the Night

132

Vicissitude (molding and crafting of blood, flesh and bone). The extraordinarily rare bloodlines also practice Melpominee (manipulation of music and voice), Obeah (a power of physical and spiritual healing) and Thanatosis (control over the processes of physical death and decay). Some other Disciplines are thought to exist as well, though they and their practitioners are certainly so rare as to be nearly nonexistent.

Most of the Disciplines require the use of blood or some other expenditure of effort. The gifts of Caine do not come lightly or easily, after all. Still, they are invaluable tools for hunting and survival, even in the modern age. Times being what they are, modern vampires must be very careful of the Masquerade with their powers; a mortal tourist with a camera can prove the greatest threat to vampiric secrecy.

Unless otherwise noted, a Discipline is only useful against one target at a time, and the subject must be sensed directly by the vampire-seen, heard or otherwise noticed. Sensory-enhancing powers may allow effects to target subjects at a distance outside the range of normal sight, but technological assistance is not sufficient--the subject must be noted with the vampire's own senses and powers. For example, you cannot use a camera or binoculars to locate a victim, but you can use Auspex.

Descriptions of the Disciplines usually refer solely to vampires or Cainites using the powers. Unless specifically noted otherwise, these descriptions include ghouls, revenants and other characters who use the appropriate power.

Some Disciplines require a physical touch or grip to affect a subject. Acquiring this grip requires a Physical Challenge, though an unsuspecting victim may be lured in with a handshake. A subject who voluntarily meets your grip relents, and he is automatically affected; otherwise, you must make the challenge as normal, even if striking from surprise or if you actually touch the other player (which violates the No Touching rule in any case). Touch-activated Disciplines can sometimes be used in conjunction with an unarmed strike, in which case the strike does normal damage and the Discipline takes effect as well if the blow connects.

LEARNING DISCIPLINES

All vampires can naturally learn their clan Disciplines with nothing more than the expenditure of Experience Traits. As with any other learned capability, the new powers become available at the next game session.

The cardinal eight Disciplines that are shared by every clan-Animalism, Celerity, Dominate, Fortitude, Obfuscate, Potence and Presence-require only a willing teacher who is one level above what the student wishes to learn. What payment the teacher requires is best left for the characters to haggle out between themselves. Out of game, the Storyteller may require that the vampire indicate who is teaching him his Discipline

Certain Disciplines are proprietary to their clans - created by them and often practiced solely by them. Some clans have even hunted those outside the clan's bounds who knew of their secrets. Teachers of these wondrous powers are, consequently, few and far between. Those fortunate enough to acquire a teacher, however, are not done yet- in order to study the Discipline, they must drink a Trait of blood from a vampire capable of learning the Discipline (which need not necessarily be the teacher). Cainite scholars believe that this is necessary in order to "attune" the blood to learning something that is quite alien. The drink is only necessary once, and the student may learn as long as the teacher wishes to retain her. Those Disciplines that require this are Chimerstry, Dementation, Melpominee, Necromancy, Obeah, Obtenebration, Protean, Quietus, Serpentis, Thanatosis, Thaumaturgy and Vicissitude. While the Book of Nod claims that Caine knew every Discipline, this would seem to be impossible in light of the fact that the Tremere with their Thaumaturgy, the Daughters of Cacophony with their Melpominee, or the Samedi and Thanatosis (to name a few) did not exist when Caine was flourishing in Nod.

Disciplines

033

ANIMALISM

For a vampiric predator, mastery over animals is a simple task; the vampire's Beast is more dangerous than any animal's nature. By drawing on this feral connection, vampires can communicate with and control animals. Indeed, vampires who develop a communion with their animal side often seem attractive or at least masterful to most animals.

This Discipline is practiced by the Gangrel, Nosferatu, Ravnos and Tzimisce clans; the Gangrel and Nosferatu often establish equitable or friendly relationships with natural creatures, while the Tzimisce show their mastery over lesser life forms through this power. Ravnos find animals to be useful scouts, spies and meals in their nomadic travels.

Use the Animal Ken Ability for retests with the Animalism Discipline. BASIC ANIMALISM

Feral Whispers

By looking into the eyes of an animal and perhaps making some related sound (like growling or hissing), you are capable of communicating with the creature. Your predatory nature allows you to understand and cow natural creatures. Depending on your predilections, you may deal with the animal equitably, or you may demand obedience. The animal may not wish to obey, but this Discipline's power insures that the animal is at least favorably disposed toward you. Even if the animal is intractable, you may be able to force it into submission.

Using this power requires that you look into the eyes of the creature with which you desire to communicate; if this gaze is lost, then you must attempt to re-establish contact if you wish to continue communicating. Most animals will continue to attend your gaze while you are communicating with them, though. Animals without eyes, or very simple in nature, do not have enough of a mind or Beast to connect with easily. This power works best with predatory creatures and larger birds, reptiles and mammals.

You may communicate with animals without any test. However, to issue commands, you must defeat the animal in a Social Challenge-generally, the animal will have the equivalent of six to eight Traits for this challenge, as determined by a Narrator. If you succeed, you can count on the animal following your orders for the remainder of the evening. Most animals lack the intelligence necessary to carry out complex or conditional commands, but they can perform simple tasks like fetching, following people or guarding locations.

Beckoning

By uttering a howl or other animal noise, you can summon animals to your side. Depending on how you couch your call, you can summon all animals of a particular type within the area, or just a few. The creatures hasten to your Beckoning, ready to aid or simply to provide nourishment. Though animals called by this power do not fall under your control automatically, they are at least favorably inclined toward you. You must expend a Social Trait for each animal that you summon. Only animals that can hear the summons respond; you cannot call a bird from across a city, nor could you call an animal that cannot hear. You may be as specific as you desire within the category of summoned animals. For instance, you may choose to summon all the rats in an area, or just the white ones, or even a specific rat that you know about.

Animals summoned with this power may take some time to arrive. Your Storyteller can issue cards for your animals or swarms, as appropriate. Animals summoned with this power remain as long as they are not attacked or threatened (within their conception-a rat would certainly feel threatened by the movements of several people in the area), or until the scene ends. You can use other Animalism powers normally to command or control the animals called.

Laws of the Night

134

INTERMEDIATE ANIMALISM

Quell the Beast

Touching (from surprise or with a Physical Challenge) or gazing into the eyes of a victim, you can project the fearsome predatory aspect of your vampiric nature. Your Beast serves to show your ultimate mastery over your prey, cowing humans and animals alike into submission. Without the inner fire of powerful emotions, the subject is apathetic.

Different vampires evoke this power in different ways. Nosferatu most com- monly soothe the Beasts of their subjects, drawing them into lassitude, while Tzimisce and Gangrel often assert their mastery over lesser subjects and terrify the victims into submission. Regardless of the means, the results are similar; any vampire using this Discipline can choose her particular style. No speech or vocalization is necessary only the physical or eye contact.

You must engage in a Social Challenge with your victim in order to use this power. Once you have intimidated or soothed the subject, he may no longer use Willpower Traits for the remainder of the evening. Such a subject also gains the Negative Traits Submissive x 2, for the same duration. Multiple uses of this power are not cumulative; once affected, the victim cannot receive additional Submissive Traits through further uses of this Discipline.

Cowing the Beast of a vampire is much more difficult. You must expenda Willpower Trait to make the attempt (before engaging in the Social Challenge). If successful, the vampire suffers from the normal effects of this power. Alternately, you may use this power on a vampire in frenzy, causing the Cainite to snap back into lucidity. In such a case, you expend the Willpower Trait and make the Social Challenge as usual, but if you succeed, the vampire merely returns to lucidity instead of suffering the other effects of this Discipline. You may not use this Discipline on yourself.

Subsume the Spirit

Locking eyes with an animal, you can now move your consciousness into its body, dominating it completely. Your soul pushes aside the animal's weaker spirit, and your own body falls into a comatose state, while your spirit uses the animal as a vessel. Though influenced by the animal's bestial nature, you can still exercise your intellect and even some of your supernatural capabilities.

You are limited by the physical constraints of any animal that you possess - your physical Disciplines do not augment the creature, nor do you have the ability to speak or manipulate objects if that is normally outside of the animal's physical capabilities. However, you can use the animal's natural abilities, such as claws, wings, poison and gills.

There is no functional limit to the distance at which you can exercise this Discipline once you have possessed an animal-you may move freely in the animal's body, even in sunlight (subject to the normal restrictions for remaining awake during the day), without concern for your vampiric form. However, you are not automatically aware of what transpires around your comatose body. If your animal form suffers injury, your vampiric body suffers equal sympathetic injury; if the animal body is slain, your soul returns to your body and you enter torpor. Should you choose to leave the animal's body for your own, this happens regardless of distance as long as you are conscious. However, you must declare this intent at the beginning of the turn and survive until the end of the turn (if you are in combat or other dangerous situations). Fleeing the animal body does not require an action; you may still act normally in the turn that you intend to return to your body. If you are injured (without being knocked unconscious) while attempting to return to your own body, you must make a Simple Test- a tie indicates that you remain in the grip of animalistic behavior for the rest of the scene, and a failure causes you to immediately enter frenzy, though in both cases you return to your Cainite form automatically.

Disciplines

1 Trait

2 Traits

3 Traits

4 Traits 5 Traits

SUBSUME THE SPIRIT

Simple possession

Can use Auspex

Can also use Presence and Animalism

Can also use Dementation and Dominate

Can also use Chimerstry, Necromancy and Thaumaturgy

If your vampiric body dies while you inhabit an animal's form, you can try to remain in the animal body. Each sunrise, you must make a Simple Test (win ortie). If you lose, your spirit plunges into the astral realms, gone forever. Thus, you have only a short time to survive.

Exercising this power requires that you gaze into the eyes of the beast that you intend to possess (if the animal has no eyes, you may not possess it). You must then expend Social Traits to move into the animal's body. The more Social Traits you choose to expend, the more complete your connection to the animal form. With simple possession, you direct the body as you choose; more complete dominance allows you to use some of your own Disciplines while in the body.

Once you have used this power, you suffer from some of the animal's habits and instincts. For each Social Trait expended on the possession, you suffer from one Negative Trait of Feral. These Traits remain until you overcome the animal's behavior patterns by expending Willpower Traits-one Willpower Trait for each Negative Trait removed. You should roleplay the animal's mannerisms, even after returning to your own body, until you have managed to remove these Negative Traits, although you can slowly overcome them by spending Willpower Traits over time (you need not try to overcome all of the Feral habits at once).

ADVANCED ANIMALISM

Drawing Out the Beast

Your mastery over the Beast Within is superb. Through your keen understanding of predatory nature and the ability to influence other creatures, you can draw out your own Beast, pushing your frenzy on others. Animals and ghouls are favored targets for this power, turning them into killing machines, but you can attempt to exert your Beast on anyone.

You must be on the verge of frenzy to use this Discipline. You exert this power in lieu of making any Virtue Test to control your frenzy. Instead, you make a Social Challenge against any individual within your line of sight. Doing so does not cost an action; you may attempt this feat any time that you are about to frenzy. If you win, your frenzy is transferred to the victim. The hapless recipient immediately enters frenzy and even manifests some of your personality, habits and speech patterns (which should be roleplayed-typically, characters with the Investigation Ability may recognize your mannerisms in the victim). The victim remains in a normal frenzy, while you are unaffected and unable to frenzy for the duration. Should the victim die while frenzied, though, the screaming Beast immediately returns to you, requiring you to make a Virtue Test or to exercise this power again. If you lose, you instead frenzy immediately with no Virtue Test, and you are unable to fight against your frenzy with Willpower Traits.

While the Beast is loosed in a victim, you remain complacent and placid. However, if the victim leaves your sight before the frenzy is over, you lose your Beast, suffering as if subjected to Quell the Beast - you cannot use Willpower Traits and you gain the Negative Traits Submissive x 2. You must find the recipient of your Beast and "convince" the Beast to return by acting in a monstrous fashion, or else kill the victim so that the Beast returns automatically.

Lanes of the Night

(30

Auspex

A predator's senses must be fearfully acute, so many vampires hone their sensory talents to incredible sharpness. This improved awareness starts merely by expanding physical senses, but as a vampire's powers of perception grow, consciousness itself becomes fleeting and sublime. Such a heightened awareness encompasses subtle textures and emotional states, transcending the physical limitations of the body while developing sharpness of the mind.

The powers of Auspex grant the ability to see through supernatural deception. With such focused attention, Auspex can even pierce the veils of Chimerstry and Obfuscate. Whenever Auspex is active (a conscious choice on the vampire's part), a Mental Challenge may be made with an opponent to try to see through the illusions of Chimerstry or the misdirection of Obfuscate. Winning this challenge with Auspex penetrates the deceptive powers. Losing, though, indicates that the vampire is affected normally. For each level of difference between the subject's Obfuscate or Chimerstry and the searcher's Auspex, there is a Trait modifier on a one-for-one basis in the event of ties or overbids. For example, a searching vampire with Telepathy (an intermediate level of Auspex) counts two additional Traits against an opponent who only knows Unseen Presence, a Basic level of Obfuscate. This bonus applies even when not using the full level of these Disciplines; an individual hiding with Mask of a Thousand Faces is still very difficult to detect if his mastery of Obfuscate has reached the Advanced level of Cloak the Gathering. A chance to see through supernatural concealment always exists, but doing so is much more likely if the searcher's Auspex powers are highly advanced and/or the opponent's powers are weak. When using a Heightened Sense, hold up a number of fingers based on your power level (one for Basic, two for Intermediate, three for Advanced).

The Auspex Discipline is most evidenced by the Tremere, Tzimisce and Malkavian clans, who use it for supernatural insights, and by the Toreador, who use their superb senses in conjunction with their artistic work.

Auspex powers retest with the Investigation Ability. Willpower may be used for a single retest when attempting to spot an Obfuscated or otherwise hidden individual-in such a case, the vampire focuses his senses and concentrates fiercely, redoubling his searching efforts.

BASIC AUSPEX

Heightened Senses

At will, you can extend your senses beyond human norms. Your eyesight and hearing sharpen to twice your mortal limits, while your touch, smell and taste are acute enough to pick out tiny details and features with ease. You can sharpen any or all of your senses, as desired. Furthermore, you sometimes have flashes of insight, preternatural awareness of danger or future events.

Any senses augmented by this Discipline function at twice normal effectiveness, allowing you to spot hidden foes, hear the rustle of leaves outside, taste a bit of poison in vitae, read a hand-written note by touch and smell incense burned hours ago. Should your senses be overwhelmed, though, you may be stunned temporarily. A loud gunshot, a flash of light or other overwhelming factor can incapacitate one of your senses for a time, causing you to lose the benefits of this Discipline. Furthermore you remain completely stunned for one turn, and you lose the sharpened sense in question for the duration of the scene, unless you expend a Willpower Trait to keep your wits about you.

Aura Perception

By watching a subject carefully, you can pick out the glowing halo or aura that surrounds all creatures. The interplay of colors in this aura gives you insight into the subject's emotions, motives and true nature. This Discipline is noticeable, though, as you stare at the subject with intense concentration.

Disciplines

You must be able to see your target in order to use Aura Perception. You then spend a turn in concentration and make a Static Mental Challenge with a difficulty of the target's number of Mental Traits (more complex targets are harder to read). Since using this power is a Static Test, the target may not relent or retest. If you succeed, you may ask any one of the following questions, which the subject must answer truthfully: What is your current mood/emotional state? What sort of creature are you (human, vampire, werewolf, etc., subject to your knowledge of such beings and their auras)? Are you under the effects of any form of magic? Have you committed diablerie (see the section on diablerie, p. 216, for how long this form of detection is viable)? Was the last thing you said a lie?

Aura Perception also allows you to sense ghosts and astral forms. If you suspect the presence of a ghost in an area, you may expend a Mental Trait to make a normal challenge to sense its aura, as described previously. If you succeed, you are aware of the ghost's aura as a pale, flickering and amorphous light, though this is not sufficient for you to identify specific individual ghosts.

INTERMEDIATE AUSPEX

The Spirit's Touch

Every being leaves traces of its thoughts and emotions wherever it goes. With this Discipline, you can read these psychic impressions from objects that others have handled, or that have strong emotional events tied to them. A simple touch and a moment of concentration unlocks a flood of images and sensations, possibly giving insight into the past of the item. Note that you may only use this power on objects or places, not on people, vampires, animals or other living creatures.

By touching an item and expending a Mental Trait for a turn of concentration, you gain a brief flash of insight into any powerfully emotional events surrounding the object in question. Each use of this power on an object allows you to ask a Narrator one of the following questions, requiring a truthful answer: Who last touched this object (before me)? Was this object used in any emotionally stressful events, like a murder, a passionate romance or a maniacal rage? What strong emotions drove a particular subject holding this object? Answers to these questions generally come in the form of images and impressions; you may not get exact names or lists of information, but instead distorted pictures, flashes of sudden passion and repeating sounds and voices. It is up to you to interpret such information.

Using this power on objects charged with particularly powerful emotions-a knife used to kill someone, a blanket clutched during childbirth, a bizarre puzzle that drove someone to insanity-may cause you to be temporarily overcome with emotions that are not your own. At the discretion of a Narrator or Storyteller, you may temporarily suffer from a derangement for the rest of the scene.

Telepathy

Projecting your senses outward, you can pierce the shroud of reason in the minds of others, drawing forth their very thoughts. You can link your consciousness to anyone you can see, sending or receiving concepts that you and the target "hear" in your respective minds.

In order to use Telepathy, you must make a Mental Challenge against your subject. A willing subject may relent to this mental contact, but there is no way to identify the originator of a given telepathic missive short of making contact (or you choose to identify yourself). You must also spend a full turn in concentration, focusing on your subject. If you succeed, you establish a brief link, allowing you to send or scan thoughts as long as you maintain the contact. You may issue a stream of thoughts that the subject "hears" as a single concept, or you can pluck a thought from the victim, asking a single question and demanding a truthful answer. Legitimate secrets that can be uncovered

Laws of the Night

138

are anything that could be discerned with Aura Perception, as well as such questions as: What is the appearance of a person, place or item about which you are speaking? What is the name of a person, place or item about which you are speaking? What element have you omitted from your answer to a question, if any? What is the true answer to a question that you have lied about? What memories do you have of one topic (querent's choice) of current conversation? If you choose to interrogate an unwilling victim, you must make a Mental Challenge for each question asked; if simply communicating normally, no additional challenges are required.

With effort, you can probe deep into the consciousness of an open mind, drawing out hidden secrets or buried memories. Doing so allows you to ask more detailed questions than the cursory ones usually employed with Telepathy. By expending a Mental Trait after establishing a successful telepathic link, you may ask and expect a truthful response to: What is one of your Flaws or Negative Traits, if any (subject's choice)? What is one of your derangements, if any (subject's choice)? Each question asked requires a Static Mental Challenge against the subject's Mental Traits, and the subject may not relent-you are delving deep into the mind, which reacts automatically to defend against intrusion.

At Storyteller discretion, Telepathy may discern clumsy uses of Dominate, particu- larly of Forgetful Mind, but with a great deal of effort. The most common means of doing so is to establish a link and begin asking questions, as described in the paragraph above. A second Static Mental Challenge against the subject's Mental Traits may allow you to spot gaps in a memory or where a memory has been poorly reconstructed. Modem vampires compare such gaps to be like watching a badly spliced film.

Communication with Telepathy proceeds in impulses, images and feelings, and it does not rely on the use of a common language, so even people who do not speak the same language may make themselves understood. Individuals unused to the sudden onslaught of Telepathy may be momentarily stunned or disoriented by projected thoughts, at the Narrator's discretion. Telepathy may also be used simply to eavesdrop; scanning someone telepathically is invisible and largely undetectable, unless another character with Telepathy tries to "listen in" on the link (using a Static Mental Challenge against the scanner). Such eavesdropping can only be used on surface thoughts. Beware, though- if you force your way into someone's mind without permission, the target may make a Willpower Challenge to force you to break off your link.

You may only use your Telepathy on one subject at a time, but this limit does not preclude someone else from using her own Telepathy on you. If you contact a subject and then use your Telepathy on someone else, your link to the first subject collapses and must be re-established later.

Using Telepathy on a supernatural creature is a taxing exercise, and it requires the expenditure of a Mental Trait. This Trait is expended before the Mental Challenge is made to establish the link. Telepathy only functions on beings with conscious thought. The Discipline has no effect on constructs that are not self-aware or on normal animals.

ADVANCED AUSPEX

Psychic Projection

No longer confined to the physical plane, you can project your senses and awareness outside of your own body. Thus untethered, your consciousness roams various planes of thought, allowing you to spy on areas all over the world as an incorporeal spirit. Without the concerns of mass and matter, you easily pass through any physical barrier and move at the speed of thought to any place on Earth, under the orbit of the moon.

While your senses are projected, your body lies in a comatose state, unaware of its surroundings. Your psychic form does not tire from travel, nor is it hindered or injured by the material world. Indeed, you are completely invisible and intangible,

Disciplines

139

unable to affect anything physically. However, your spirit-form can still sense its surroundings normally, even using your other powers of Auspex. Your immaterial form is tied to your material corpse through a silver cord, a sort of psychic tether that keeps you from becoming lost in the realms of spirit.

Sending your senses out in this fashion requires the expenditure of a Willpower Trait. You may remain out of your body as long as you like, though the rise of the sun over your physical form may force you into slumber. Furthermore, by expending an additional Willpower Trait, you can manifest for a single turn as an intangible apparition, allowing you to be seen and to speak audibly. While materialized, you can use any of your Mental or Social Disciplines simply by expending a Mental Trait before making the appropriate additional expenditures or challenges. While visible, you appear as an idealized form of yourself, complete with projected trappings, though your real-world physical possessions do not come with you in spirit form. Even while visible, you remain intangible and thus immune to injury from conventional sources like claws, fire, sunlight and mundane weapons (although your comatose body can still be harmed). While in astral form, you may not possess other bodies, even if you have that talent in Dominate.

You may deal normally with other astral forms that you encounter, conversing and using Mental or Social Disciplines. You may even attempt to injure other astral travelers by attacking their silver cord. Such astral combat uses Mental Challenges, with damage causing the opponent to lose Willpower Traits. Once an astral combatant runs out of Willpower Traits, his silver cord snaps, stranding him in the spirit realms. From there, the spirit may accidentally wander deeper into other worlds (such as the Dark Umbra in Oblivion or the Realms described in Laws of the Wild), or he may stumble about until he finds a way to return to his body. Some spirits thus trapped never return, captured or devoured by monstrous entities that dwell in the astral plane.

While astral, your consciousness exists in a mental projection of the material world. You cannot directly interact with or see wraiths, Umbral spirits or Garou (see Oblivion and Laws of the Wild), unless you find a means to travel to or sense the other spirit worlds. Similarly, your astral form is invisible and intangible to them unless you manifest in the physical world. CELERITY

As one of the physical augmenting Disciplines of vampires, Celerity represents preternatural speed and reflexes. When angered, stressed or consumed with need, a Cainite can use the power inherent in the blood to fuel her actions, moving with startling quickness.

If attacked by surprise (see p.200), the victim may not use Celerity in the initial challenge-she must respond with her normal reflexes, and can only draw on her vampiric speed once she has reacted to the surprise.

The Celerity Discipline is most common among the Assamite, Brujah and Toreador clans. The former two tend to use the powers of Celerity in battle, while the latter engages in feats of dance, rapid completion of artwork or to flee from danger.

Since Celerity simply grants additional actions or modifiers to speed, it does not draw retests from any Ability. Actions performed with Celerity can still be retested appropriately (if shooting a gun twice, for instance, Firearms is used normally for a retest on each shot). Additional actions with Celerity can only be used for physical feats; one cannot use rapid- fire Dominate or Thaumaturgy with Celerity, for instance. As a general rule, Mental and Social Disciplines may not be activated during Celerity, except during Alacrity.

Use of Celerity at the speed of Swiftness or above is generally considered a breach of the Masquerade. Note that a vampire need not use her full level of Celerity; a vampire with Advanced Celerity could simply rely on the Basic levels if desired.

Laws of the Night

BASIC CELERITY

Alacrity

Your reflexes are finely honed. Even as you watch others act, you can spring into action, completing your movements before they can respond.

By expending a Blood Trait, you gain the ability to preempt any physical actions taken in the same turn, as long as you are aware of them (a face-to-face mugging, yes -a sniper attack, no). Thus, if someone declares an attempt to pull out a hidden weapon and shoot at you, you can preempt that action to pull out your own gun and fire back (instead of being relegated to dodging). Similarly, if someone attacks an ally, you can preempt the action to get in the way and fight against the aggressor instead. If you attempt to preempt someone using Celerity or a similar speed-enhancing power, the character with the highest degree of Celerity acts first.

Swiftness

With shocking speed, you move faster than humanly possible. Even as others are recovering from events, you are making your next move.

Expend a single Blood Trait to gain one additional action in your turn, in addition to your preemptive Alacrity (the costs are not cumulative). This additional action is taken at the end of the turn, after everyone has resolved single basic actions. If multiple people have additional actions like this, they are all resolved at the same time, after basic actions. You can thus swing a sword twice, run twice as far as normal in a turn, fire a gun and then duck behind cover, or otherwise perform multiple feats.

INTERMEDIATE CELERITY

Rapidity

Even other Cainites are dazzled by your superhuman speed. You routinely catch dropped objects, and the speed of your passing whips clothes and loose debris about.

Invoking all of your Celerity, at the cost of a single Blood Trait, enables you to use the Bomb in challenges of speed and agility. When performing an action where speed is of the essence, such as dodging an attack, throwing a knife or grabbing something out of someone's hand, you can declare that you have Rapidity. Once thus declared, you may choose to use the Bomb, a fist with the thumb pointing upward; the Bomb defeats Rock and Paper, but loses to Scissors (the fuse is cut) and ties with other Bombs. This symbol is usable in any challenges of speed throughout the turn. However, you are not required to use the Bomb-it is simply another option.

You may use Rapidity in any challenge where you rely on your own speed, even if your opponent attempts to use strength or stamina. Thus, if you try to use your Rapidity to dodge out of the way of someone grabbing at you, you can still use the Bomb. If the opponent possessed Might, you could still use the Bomb for speed, but the opponent would be able to use his Might retest for grappling.

Legerity

Moving faster than the human eye can track, you blur across the landscape with the speed of a cheetah. Compared to you, bystanders are statues.

You may activate your Legerity and all other Celerity levels for the turn at the cost of one Blood Trait. Your Legerity grants you one additional normal action at the end of the turn, in addition to your action from Swiftness (thus, you have at least three actions, a preempt and the Bomb in challenges of speed). Actions gained from Legerity come after basic and Swiftness actions, at the end of the turn.

ADVANCED CELERITY

Fleetness

When you call on your blood, you burst into a whirlwind of motion. Your passing extinguishes small flames, whips up flurries of debris and sows confusion among slower-moving entities.

Disciplines

With a single Blood Trait, you activate all of your Celerity powers. You now win all ties in challenges of speed, regardless of Traits. If some other consideration would cause you to lose on ties (such as wounds or an enemy's Potence), you compare Traits normally instead of losing automatically. This benefit lasts for the duration of the entire turn in which you use your Celerity. Your Fleetness functions in all challenges where you rely on speed, even if your opponent tries to use strength or stamina. Thus, if you use the speed of Fleetness to challenge an opponent who uses the strength of Puissance, ties are determined normally (since you both have powers that would win all ties). If the opponent only had Might, you would win all ties but still be vulnerable to a Might retest. CHIMERSTRY

The Ravnos tricksters of India live in a world of illusions and dreams. According to their philosophies, the material world itself is only a passing fantasy. Conse- quently, they wield power over perceptions, shaping their own illusions and crafting dreamstuff to their liking.

With the Chimerstry Discipline, the Ravnos call on the energy of dreams and imagination, giving it form and phantasmic substance. This Discipline's powers can conjure almost any shade that springs to mind, though plausible effects or duplications of things that the conjurer has experienced are much more likely to fool viewers and victims. With enough mastery, the vampire can even give such illusions shadow- substance, causing injury to others. These illusions vanish only if dispelled by the creator, if the illusionist ceases concentrating on her creations or if they are banished by a disbelieving opponent who exerts enough presence of mind to prove the illusion's nonexistence (say, by shoving a hand through an illusory wall).

Chimerical illusions can only create, not remove thus, they may add elements to a scene, but cannot cause something to become invisible. Chimerstry could cover up something's features but not remove selected parts. Furthermore, each illusion is a single object; one use of Chimerstry cannot create an entire host of illusory sensations or items. Chimerical creations must be free-standing items or sensory effects a chimerical piece of clothing could conceal someone's real appearance, but a chimerical stake could not suddenly materialize inside of someone's chest (though it could later seem to be thrust there).

Retests with Chimerstry use the Subterfuge Ability, as they attempt to trick, deceive and mislead.

BASIC CHIMERSTRY

Ignis Fatuus

You generate a brief, static illusion that affects a single sense. You could cause the appearance of a rose in your hand, or make someone hear a low wind or feel the grating touch of sandpaper. This illusion has no real substance (and it cannot confine or injure your victims), but it can confound or mislead. The illusion cannot move in any fashion, although you can hold and move an illusion that you create. Thus, an illusion of a person cannot walk or fidget, but you can pick up and brandish an illusory knife.

You must expenda Willpower Trait and best your subjects in a Social Challenge to create this illusion. The illusion persists until you leave the area or until someone manages to disbelieve the effect (by passing a hand through the illusory rose, testing the air and feeling no wind, etc.). You may also dispel the illusion at your desire; doing so is immediate and requires no action.

Fata Morgana

Your illusions appeal to all of the senses. Though you still cannot harm or affect others physically with your phantasms, you can generate static constructs that seem real to any senses

Laws of the Night

that you choose to affect. Thus, you can make a wall that appears solid, has a texture to the touch and smells of old dust and paint, but which has no real substance and can be passed through. Alternately, you could create a phantasm that lacks certain characteristics-you could cause a person to believe that you were holding a rose and brushing it against her cheek, provoking the feeling of the flower against the skin and the scent of the rose, when in fact you do not have a rose. These illusions are still incapable of independent movement.

You must expend a Willpower Trait and a Blood Trait to create an illusion of this nature, and you must best your subjects in a Social Challenge. These illusions remain viable under the same conditions as phantasms created with Ignis Fatuus.

INTERMEDIATE CHIMERSTRY

Apparition

No longer confined to mere static images, you can create an illusion that appeals to many senses and has its own capabilities. You must first create an illusion using one of the lesser powers of this Discipline. Then, you can give it a semblance of life. People can be made to move, water to drip and lights to shine in complex patterns. You can even create blatantly strange moving effects, like a knife that flies about threateningly or a human who comes apart and back together again.

You need only spend a single Blood Trait to give animation to an illusion. Once so imbued, you cause the phantasm to move in one specific pattern that you desire. If you spend a complete turn in concentration, you can change this pattern at no extra cost. You must be present for your illusion to sustain itself.

Permanency

You no longer need to be present to sustain your illusory creations. Any illusion that you make with Chimerstry can be imbued with Permanency, allowing it to persist even if you leave the area.

Once you have created an illusion, the expenditure of a single Blood Trait grants Permanency. The phantasm remains until you dissolve it or until someone sees through the illusion in some fashion. Thus, you can cast an illusion over an area and then leave, allowing the illusion to persist.

ADVANCED CHIMERSTRY

Horrid Reality

Your terrifying powers of deception extend directly into the mind of your victim. By focusing your efforts on one individual, you can create terrifyingly realistic phantasms. These illusions can affect the senses and move about in any fashion that you desire, but they affect only one victim. Because of the absolute realism of these phantasms, they can actually convince the victim that he has been injured or affected physically. An illusory fire created with this power burns its target, a phantom wall bars passage and a chimerical stake paralyzes a vampire if thrust through the heart.

CHIMERSTRY AND THE FAE

If you are using the rules from The Shining Host, the Discipline of Chimerstry briefly shapes dreaming energy into chimerical constructs, and pulls them into a pseudo-Wyrd state where onlookers can experience them. Such creations are fully effective against changelings, who are always aware of these dream-fantasies. Thus, a chimerical knife (created with only low levels of Chimerstry and thus unable to actually injure people) can and does inflict chimerical damage on changelings. Furthermore, since these illusions are fueled by the power of the caster's blood, they cannot be dismissed with simple Banality; active resistance must disbelieve them.

Disciplines

You must expend a Willpower Trait and defeat your victim in a Social Challenge in order to use this power effectively. Once active, the nightmarish creation of this power remains for the entire scene, and its effects can last even longer-if you create a gun with this power, it remains for the scene, but wounds inflicted with it score damage that lasts until disbelieved. Since the illusion is completely under your control, it can affect the victim without recourse to additional tests, meaning that you can make a chimerical gun that always hits or a chimerical stake that seems to bend and twist toward the heart. Illusory wounds of this sort cannot kill, though they can certainly drive the victim into a comatose state. These wounds only disappear when the victim is convinced either of the illusory nature of the effect or when he is convinced that he is "healed."

DEMENTATION

The twisted psyches of Clan Malkavian house a passion and insight unmatched among the other lines of Cainites. Through their bizarre powers of Dementation, the Malkavians spread their madness, catalyzing insanity among mortal and vampire alike. Though this power was found only among the deranged Freaks of the Sabbat, a recent wave of instability has spread its nightmarish bubbles through Malkavians across the globe.

The Malkavians do not consider the secrets of Dementation "proprietary"; indeed, many seem almost eager to spread them. Curiously, other Cainite students of this Discipline need not be insane to use its powers. The Discipline does not seem to spread insanity, but rather, unlocks the doors of the psyche, exciting the madness that festers in every mind.

Some Lunatics do not use Dementation consciously. These few instead catalyze the passions of their victims; such advisors and seers spread their insight to unsuspecting vampires, who in turn find themselves spiraling slowly out of control. Other Malkavians recognize, categorize and use the powers of Dementation like the other regimented Disciplines. Strangely, the most stable and sane-appearing Lunatics are typically the ones who exert their Dementation with the least awareness.

Dementation powers use the Empathy Ability for retests. BASIC DEMENTATION

Passion

You can bring emotion to a fever pitch, accentuating any and all drives or fears that may occupy the mind of your subject. Alternately, you can diminish passions to whispers, quelling the most fierce emotional fires.

You must engage your victim in a Social Challenge in order to use Passion. If you succeed, you enhance or dull the subject's emotions, at your choice. If you heighten the target's sensitivity, then the subject suffers from the Negative Mental Trait Impatient. If you dim the subject's emotions, then the victim suffers the Negative Mental Trait Submissive. In either case, the target should roleplay the new condition. The incited Passion lasts for the remainder of the scene or for a full hour, whichever comes first. Successive uses of this Discipline on the same individual are not cumulative. The source of this affliction is not immediately obvious, though some elder vampires are aware of the mind tricks of the Malkavians, and they may deduce the source correctly if someone suddenly becomes manic or listless.

The Haunting

Freakish, fleeting nightmares follow your target. The surreal world seems to come alive in barely heard noises and brief glimpses of motion. Victims find themselves distracted by inexplicable sensations, often stemming from their own hidden fears and guilt. Though you have no control over these images, you can choose what sense is affected. With continuous prolonged exposure, your subject may fall to madness as these apparitions afflict his consciousness.

Laws of the Night

144

You must expend a Blood Trait and engage in a Social Challenge with your victim in order to use this power. If successful, the subject suffers from fleeting nightmares, often plucked from his own subconscious. For the remainder of the evening, the victim suffers from the derangement Schizophrenia (see p. 214). Your use of this power is not immediately evident, although the victim should roleplay the effects of his new terrors.

INTERMEDIATE DEMENTATION

Eyes of Chaos

Scrutinizing patterns, you can find wisdom in the cracks of reality. Your insight extends to seemingly random patterns and bizarre manifestations of chance. Watching the interplay of events around you, you can sometimes discern complex patterns in them; observing people in action, you uncover their motives and secrets.

You can delve into someone's innermost motives by watching his simple actions. You must watch the target for a full turn, concentrating on his actions and motions. Then, you must engage in a Mental Challenge with the target. If you succeed, you learn the subject's Nature.

By watching the fall of random events around you, you may gain insight into your current situation. If you spend a full turn in contemplation of circumstances and expend a Mental Trait, you can predict (to some degree) the possible course of events. For the remainder of the scene, or for the next hour (whichever comes first), you cannot be surprised.

Losing a challenge in Eyes of Chaos causes you to become entranced with the patterns around you. Consider this entrancement identical to the Torea- dor Clan Disadvantage.

Voice of Madness

Simply by speaking aloud to your victims, you can reduce them to howling fear or anger. You address your targets in a reasonable tone, encouraging them to succumb to their inner demons. Those terrors then come to the fore, driving your victims to blind, uncontrolled panic.

You must expend a Blood Trait to use this power. Then, by speaking to your victims for a full turn, you can attempt to drive them into frenzy. You may affect multiple people at once, as long as they can all hear you. You then make a Social Challenge against your targets; any who lose to you are brought to the verge of frenzy. Mortals immediately flee in terror, as if affected by Rötschreck. Vampires, Lupines and other creatures capable of frenzy make Self-Control/Instinct Tests immediately, with a difficulty of four Traits, or else

INFECTION\!

In the late 1990s, a wave of renewed madness spread among Clan Malkavian, shattering feeble or comical Lunatics and leaving the clan solely as twisted seers and madmen. One rapidly evident effect of this madness was the reintroduction of Dementation to the repertoire of many otherwise independent or Camarilla-affiliated Malkavians. Players of existing Malkavian characters may choose to retain Dominate asa Discipline or switch their Dominate powers for Dementation (those rare Malkavians with both Disciplines may choose to swap Dominate as a clan Discipline, and all of its levels, for Dementation, though the reverse is not possible). For instance, a Camarilla Malkavian with both Basic levels of Dominate but only one Basic level of Dementation (bought as an out-of-clan Discipline) could keep his Disciplines as they are, or decide to switch them, taking Dementation as a clan Discipline and having both Basic levels while losing one level of his Dominate Discipline.

Disciplines

145

fall into a similar state. However, you must also test for Rötschreck, with a difficulty of three Traits. This frenzy lasts for an entire scene unless curbed with Willpower or other capabilities, and mortals do not remember their actions during this period of terror.

ADVANCED DEMENTATION

Total Insanity

Madness lies around the nearest corner of every mind. Pulling insanity from the recesses of your target's deepest memories and beliefs, you cause the hapless victim to succumb to a wash of overpowering lunacy.

You must gain your target's total attention for a full turn; many Malkavians do so with sudden tricks, non-sequiturs and bizarre actions. You must then expend a Blood Trait and engage your target in a Social Challenge. If you win, your victim begins to suffer from five derangements, chosen by a Storyteller or Narrator, for the remainder of the evening. This Discipline is not cumulative-you cannot pile up more derangements with successive uses.

For ease of use of Total Insanity, it may be handy to make up several cards with derangements listed on them, and allow your subject to choose five randomly. DOMINATE

Many Cainites are willful creatures, casting about their ambitions and bending mortals to their desires. For some, though, the strength of will channels into the power to bend minds and control actions. With a piercing gaze and a forceful word, Dominate can cause even the strongest mortal mind to crumble and push even other vampires to accede to one's desires.

Most Dominate powers require the victim to meet the Cainite's gaze and to hear his commands. Simple sunglasses do not protect against this power, as long as the subject can see the dominator's eyes, he can be affected. Furthermore, commands may be issued silently with Telepathy, as long as the victim meets the dominator's gaze.

Dominate is most common among the Giovanni, Lasombra, Tremere and Ventrue clans, who all exercise their authority unflinchingly.

Retests with Dominate use the Intimidation Ability, as the vampire exercises his powerful will against your subject. A subject may attempt a retest by expending a single Willpower Trait, and may only make one retest per challenge. A vampire of lower generation is always immune to a weaker vampire's Dominate powers (al- though canny elders may feign otherwise).

BASIC DOMINATE

Command

Exerting your will against a single individual, you can give a simple command and demand obedience. A single word, even one embedded in a sentence and stressed slightly, becomes an imperative command to your victim. You need only meet your victim's gaze. As long as your victim sees your eyes and hears your voice, your command carries the authority of your blood.

You must meet the gaze of your subject and speak a single word, emphasized for control. This command must be simple and easily understood: "Stop," "Run," "Sleep," "Scream," "Follow," and "Silence\!" are all acceptable examples. The command cannot be blatantly harmful or self-destructive. You then engage in a Mental Challenge with your opponent. If you win, your victim must follow the order directly and immediately. The command cannot last more than 10 minutes.

Mesmerism

Like a hypnotist, you can impart commands to your subjects, even keying them on specific trigger events. If you can meet your subject's gaze and speak aloud your

Laws of the Night

(40

commands, you can force the subject to obey your will. Unsuspecting victims can even be given commands that they must carry out later.

By making a Mental Challenge against your subject, you can impart more complex or subconscious commands. You may give your subject any sort of command as long as it is not self-destructive. This command can either be triggered immediately ("Go and fetch me a mortal vessel") or implanted with a particular trigger event ("When the prince ends court, sneeze loudly"). Only one such command may be implanted in a victim at a time, and unless other powers are used, the victim may well remember the process. Placing an order in your victim requires only as much time as it takes to speak the entirety of your order. Both the trigger and the suggestion must be clear and easily understandable.

INTERMEDIATE DOMINATE

Forgetful Mind

Your considerable powers of mental manipulation allow you to exert your influence in the very memories of your victims. By meeting your target's gaze, you can draw out answers to questions and even alter the subject's memory. You can erase entire blocks of the victim's past, or replace recollections subtly with your own dictated constructions.

To uncover, alter or erase memories, you must make a Mental Challenge against your victim. With success, you can change up to 15 minutes of your victim's memories; additional blocks of time may be altered with additional challenges. You can simply erase areas of the past, leaving the victim with a "hole" in his recollections, or you can specify new memories to overwrite your victim's experiences. By questioning your victim, you can also prompt him to elucidate his memories, repeating back his own experiences. As long as you gaze into the victim's eyes, and the subject is unthreatened, you keep the target pacified and unable to move or resist your hypnotic powers. Implanting additional commands with other Dominate powers still requires additional challenges, though. When altering someone's memories, you should record the number of Mental Traits that you possess at the time of the alteration- later uses of Forgetful Mind may be able to overcome your powers.

Although you can remove, add or change memories, you cannot destroy a subject's actual capabilities. That is, you may remove all memory of a subject learning a particular Ability or Discipline, but the victim will still retain the capability in question - he may simply be unable to recall how and when he learned it. Forgetful Mind is most useful in changing someone's memories of an event (causing someone to forget your feeding, for instance) or to cover traces of other powers (removing someone's recollection of the use of Mesmerism, leaving an implanted command buried in the subconscious mind). The more detailed your description, the more realistic the memory seems to your victim.

Use of Forgetful Mind can also determine if a particular set of memories is fake, by causing the subject to recall his overwritten experiences. By winning a Static Mental Challenge against the Mental Traits of the previous dominator, you can determine if certain memories are falsely implanted or changed, and you can then restore the original memories or alter the false ones as you see fit. You cannot use this power on your own memories.

Conditioning

The depths of your mental influence are frightful and pervasive. With time, you can strip away the defenses of the most determined mind, even removing your victim's personality and free will. You must have unrestricted access to your subject for several full nights. Should you manage to tear down the victim's resistance, her will is shattered and her mind becomes completely pliant to your whims.

Each night that you attempt to exercise Conditioning, you must make a Mental Challenge against your victim. If you manage to accumulate as many successes as your subject's Self-Control/ Instinct Traits (or Willpower Traits for victims without

Disciplines

vampiric Virtues), you tear down the victim's mind and turn her into a virtual slave. The victim loses creativity and self-direction, instead following your orders to the letter automatically. You need not make tests to Dominate such a victim; the subject follows your commands even if you cannot make eye contact. Furthermore, the subject gains one free retest against the Dominate powers of any other Cainites.

A victim of Conditioning has little free will or motivation, and he has trouble reacting to stimuli. As a result, such pawns cannot produce artistic works or engage in teaching; they lack the drive and flexibility to perform these sorts of tasks.

If an enslaved subject manages to avoid all contact with her master for six game sessions, minus one session for each Willpower Trait spent (minimum of one full session), then the Conditioning is shaken off and the subject reasserts her individuality. A drone may also be deprogrammed by the successful use of this Discipline again, just as if trying to enslave the subject. The subject resists automatically, but if enough successes are accumulated to perform proper Conditioning again, then the target's original persona can be restored.

ADVANCED DOMINATE

Possession

No mortal mind can resist the power of your will. With but a touch, you can move your consciousness into a mortal body, taking complete control of the shell and suppressing the victim's mind. For the duration of this Possession, your own body lies comatose, while the mortal's mind is unconscious and unaware of what transpires.

Once you have touched a likely mortal subject (possibly requiring a Physical Challenge to get a firm grip), you may expend a Willpower Trait immediately and make a Mental Challenge to exercise Possession. If you win the challenge, you take control of the mortal body, while your own body collapses without volition. You must expend a Mental Trait to finish the possession; additional Traits allow you to use some of your Mental and Social Disciplines while in the host body, as shown on the table.

During the course of Possession, you experience everything that happens to the mortal body, as you guide its actions. Your Cainite form also suffers any damage sustained by the mortal body; if the mortal body dies before your consciousness can flee, you immediately collapse into torpor. If you wish to flee the mortal body for your own corpse, you must announce your intent at the beginning of the turn, and your spirit does not leave until the end of the turn (although you may still perform actions as normal). As soon as you leave, the mortal resumes control over his body (assuming that he's still alive).

While in the mortal body, you may travel any distance from your unconscious Cainite form. You have all the capabilities of the living body; you can even survive daylight, if you manage to stay awake (see p. 111). The body is as vulnerable as any other mortal's, though. For this reason, most vampires use ghouls for Possession, relying on the inherent strength in such creatures.

If your vampiric body is slain while your consciousness resides in another body, you can try to hang onto the form. However, you must make a Simple Test (win or tie) at each sunrise. If you lose, your spirit tumbles into the astral plane, lost forever. A possessed body also cannot be Embraced; your spirit prevents the transfer of the Curse, and the body simply dies.

POSSESSION

Simple possession

1 Trait

2 Traits

Can use Auspex

3 Traits

Can also use Dominate and Presence

4 Traits

5 Traits

Can also use Chimerstry, Dementation and Animalism Can also use Necromancy and Thaumaturgy

Laws of the Night

(48

This power is ineffective on vampires and other supernatural creatures-their wills are too strong to be so completely overcome. FORTITUDE

All vampires are supernaturally resilient, capable of surviving blows, slashes, bullet wounds and falls with impunity. Some few, however, are even more powerfully resilient, able to shrug off the most severe wounds and even resist the powers of fire and sunlight for a short time. The Discipline of Fortitude represents such resilience, and its mastery allows survival of situations that would otherwise cause Final Death in lesser Cainites.

The nomadic Gangrel and Ravnos clans, who must survive the rigors of the wilderness and travel, most commonly possess Fortitude. The Ventrue also exhibit this Discipline, often leading their charges into battle while shrugging off terrible attacks.

Retests on Fortitude powers use the Survival Ability.

BASIC FORTITUDE

Endurance

While most Kindred still suffer the fatigue and pain of their injuries, you shrug off such hardships. Even the searing injuries of fire and sunlight can barely slow you. You do not suffer any wound penalties from anything past the Bruised health level, until you are struck into torpor or Final Death. When most vampires lose all ties due to being Wounded, or remain insensible and Incapacitated, you simply suffer the usual penalties of being Bruised.

Mettle

Wounds that would slow other vampires mean nothing to you. You can shrug off damage from most sources, ignoring pain and damage alike. Your body resists harm with incredible strength.

On achieving this Discipline, you gain one additional health level, which functions just like an extra Healthy line on your health level chart. This health level can be lost and healed like any other.

INTERMEDIATE FORTITUDE

Resilience

Even the banes to most Cainites, fire and sunlight, rarely injure you. You can endure punishment that would reduce other Cainites to ash, albeit for a brief time.

When you suffer aggravated damage, you may immediately make a Simple Test to try to reduce the severity of the damage. If you succeed, you reduce the injury to lethal damage. Before making the test, you may choose to expend a stamina-related Physical Trait, allowing you to reduce injury on a win or a tie. Otherwise, you must win the test outright. Use of Resilience is reflexive; it does not count as an action.

You may only attempt to use this Discipline once on any given attack. Thus, if you suffer two or more levels of aggravated damage from a particular attack, you may test to reduce only one level to lethal damage.

Resistance

Your vampiric endurance far surpasses that of any mortal, or even most other Cainites. You shrug off injury without noticeable effect. Blows that would stagger or kill a mortal may not even scratch you.

When you suffer lethal or bashing damage, you may make a Simple Test immedi ately to avoid some of the damage. If you succeed, you remove one level of the damage from the amount suffered. Before making the test, you may choose to expend a stamina- related Physical Trait, allowing you to avoid a level of damage on a win or tie. Otherwise, you must win the test outright. Use of Resistance is reflexive; it does not count as an action.

Disciplines

140

You may use this Discipline after reducing aggravated damage with Resilience, attempting to negate or reduce the damage entirely. Thus, if you suffer two health levels of aggravated damage from sunlight, you can test to reduce one to lethal damage with Resilience, and if successful, you may then attempt to remove that lethal damage with Resistance. You may only attempt this Discipline once on any given source of damage, so if you suffer two or more levels of damage from a single attack, you may only attempt to reduce a single level of damage from that attack.

ADVANCED FORTITUDE

Aegis

Like a bar of steel, a mountain, an immutable constant, you resist all damage and survive any attack. Only truly monumental and persistent force can ever destroy you completely. Indeed, once the storm of fire and destruction has passed, you rise out of the chaos unscathed.

At any point during a turn, you may declare the use of Aegis. You must expend a permanent Willpower Trait or three permanent Physical Traits to activate this Discipline (though these Traits may be re-purchased later with Experience Traits). When you declare Aegis, you immediately revoke any damage that you suffered in the turn, and you take no damage for the remainder of the turn. You may even declare Aegis after you have been "killed," ignoring the damage that killed you and any other injury suffered in the same turn. If you are "killed," you must use Aegis in the same turn-once a new tum begins, you cannot revoke any previous damage. Use of Aegis is reflexive; it does not count as an action. MELDOMINEE

With this Discipline, the very voice of a Cainite is a powerful tool. Inspiring emotion or projecting sound through speech and song, the Melpominee Discipline reflects the incredible mastery possessed by the Daughters of Cacophony. The Greek Muse of tragedy surely reflects in this power, as it can be used both to soothe the mind and to inspire insanity. Some Cainites attribute these sirenlike gifts to a hint of fey madness in the Daughters' bloodline.

The powers of Melpominee function on the very soul, not merely on the flesh. Deaf subjects, or individuals otherwise unable to hear the vampire, can still be affected as long as the singer's voice reaches to the area of the target. These effects extend from the will of the siren, so they only affect those who are in the hearing range of the singer's natural voice or Melpominee-projected effects -- engineered recordings, microphones, bullhorns, or electronic or mechanical copies cannot.

The Daughters of Cacophony consider Melpominee to be their highest art and calling, a reflection of the inward music that moves them. As a result, they do not teach its secrets to outsiders, and indeed other Cainites, who do not hear the cosmic music of the spheres, find development of this Discipline difficult in the extreme.

All Melpominee effects use Performance Ability for retests.

BASIC MELDOMINEE

The Missing Voice

Like a ventriloquist, you can throw your voice to any place within your line of sight. However, you do not cause your voice to seem to emanate from there--with The Missing Voice, you actually cause your speech or song to generate from thin air. You can even carry on two conversations simultaneously, for The Missing Voice functions independently of your normal voice.

You may use The Missing Voice at any time, as desired. However, if you use The Missing Voice while performing other actions, you suffer a two-Trait penalty on the resolution of challenges due to your split concentration.

Les of the Night

Phantom Speaker

No longer limited to sending your voice to a place you can see, you can project speech or song to anyone you know. As long as it is night at the subject's location, you make your voice heard to your target.

The words and music of Phantom Speaker are audible only to your target, unless an eavesdropper with at least the Intermediate level of Auspex manages to listen in by defeating you in a Mental Challenge.

You must expend one Blood Trait to project your voice for a single turn. INTERMEDIATE MELDOMINEE

Madrigal

The crashing waves of your song carry the force of your own emotions. With inspiring verses, you raise others to the heights of passion; black melancholy afflicts the victims of your works of despair.

You must make a Social Challenge against every target that you wish to affect with your Madrigal-you can affect anyone within hearing range, at your discretion. Willpower can be used to retest in defense against this power, as usual for Social Challenges. If you choose to affect multiple people, use a mass challenge as described in mob combat. Anyone who succumbs suffers the effects of an overwhelming surge of emotion, directed by your choice of song. The subjects should roleplay this wave of emotion as long as you perform no action other than singing.

You must sing for a full turn for Madrigal to take effect. The player need not actually sing to invoke this Discipline, though players so talented are certainly encouraged to do so.

Siren's Beckoning

Pulling out the roots of turmoil and despair in a subject, you awaken insanity from the soul. Like the legends of faerie singers and mermaids, you can drive your target into desperation with your melodies.

You must make a Social Challenge against your target to use the Siren's Beckoning. If you win, the victim suffers from one randomly chosen derangement. You may carry about a stack of cards with various derangements and allow the victim to choose one at random, or you may have the derangement relate to the song you sang (such as regression for a children's song or megalomania for a national anthem). This derangement lasts for the rest of the night.

ADVANCED MELDOMINEE

Virtuosa

Though most Daughters of Cacophony are limited to affecting a single target with hidden speech or insanity, your performance carries your music to as many listeners as you desire. You can extend your powers of Phantom Speaker or Siren's Beckoning to multiple subjects.

You need only expend one Blood Trait to use Phantom Speaker or Siren's Beckoning on up to five targets at once. If you use Phantom Speaker, every subject hears the same words or music that you project. If you use Siren's Beckoning, you make a mass Social Challenge against all of the victims at once. In either case, you can only use one power at a time-you cannot use Virtuosa to project speech to some people while singing to others simultaneously. NECROMANCY

The unwholesome practices of the Giovanni family comprise several paths of magic centering on death and the dead. With studies born of centuries of repellent

Disciplines

traffic in cemeteries, sewers, crypts and catacombs, the codified powers of Necro- mancy allow conversation with and control over ghosts and corpses. Even other vampires shudder at the dark practices of necromancer Cainites.

As a study of undead magic, Necromancy consists of multiple paths of study and several rituals as well. Many necromantic powers require specialized components or grisly rites. Thus, vampires who make a practice of Necromancy must often secure such bizarre elements as human corpses, hands of murderers, jars of grave moss and the like. Needless to say, such repugnant practices often have a detrimental effect on one's Humanity.

Some few magicians outside of the Giovanni family also study Necromancy, most notably the rotting Samedi. It is rumored that there exist small bloodlines of extremely potent necromancer Cainites with powers beyond those known to the Giovanni.

A Giovanni student of Necromancy begins studies with the Sepulchre Path, the path of control over ghosts. Once Intermediate expertise is achieved, the student may expand into the studies of the Ash Path (communication with the Underworld) or the Bone Path (control of zombies) at the Basic levels, but he may learn only one of the two paths. At the Advanced level of mastery in the Sepulchre Path, the necromancer may begin studies of the other path as well, and he may improve beyond the Basic levels in any Necromancy path. Some few Cainite necromancers study more rare paths, or in a different order, but all Giovanni and Samedi vampires learn the Sepulchre Path first.

THE SEPULCHRE PATH

Necromancers generally begin their studies with the Sepulchre Path, the means of controlling ghosts. Through the Sepulchre Path, the vampire delves into the names of wraiths and the means by which they may be compelled to service. Many Giovanni call on "family wraiths" that have worked in service to the necromancers for several years, especially since most novices lack the ability to see or communicate with wraiths that they do not summon and control directly.

The Sepulchre Path uses the Occult Ability for retests. Storytellers may choose to use Wraith Lore as a specialized Ability instead.

BASIC SEPULCHRE PATH NECROMANCY

Insight

Gazing into the eyes of a corpse, you can see the image burned into its death. A moment's concentration allows you to call up the memories of death itself.

You need only expend a Mental Trait while gazing into the eyes of a corpse in order to use this power. You immediately see the last minute of the individual's existence, generally as flashes of vision and startling sensations. This power can even be used on the corpse of a vampire who has reached Final Death, as long as he had not achieved Golconda and is not in a state of advanced decomposition. However, it does not function on vampires that are still ambulatory.

Summon Soul

By calling out the names of the dead, you pull them to attendance. Combined with power over their artifacts from life, you can force them to answer your summons, appearing and obeying your will.

To call a ghost, you must know its name, or at least have a clear image of its persona from The Spirit's Touch. You must also have an object with which the ghost had some contact while it was alive. If this object has particular importance to the wraith (a Fetter), you gain a free retest on your attempt to Summon Soul. Some wraiths cannot be summoned regardless of your efforts; many ghosts are lost in the eternal storm of the Underworld, or go on to their final rewards. Vampires who were diablerized or who achieved Golconda before Final Death likewise cannot be summoned in this fashion.

Laws of the Night

You must make a Mental Challenge against the wraith that you call (see Oblivion, or use the guidelines for wraiths on p. 264 of this book). If the wraith wishes to be summoned, it can appear voluntarily. The wraith finds itself pulled to your location, and it becomes visible and audible to you. You may ask a single question of the ghost, which it must answer truthfully. After a single turn, the ghost fades away unless it chooses to remain or is coerced with further Necromancy. Even if the ghost stays nearby, you must use other Necromancy powers to see and hear it again, unless you exercise Summon Soul on it again.

INTERMEDIATE SEPULCHRE PATH NECROMANCY

Compel Soul

By binding a ghost with its name and your strength of will, you can force it to obey your commands. Once you have summoned a wraith, you may use Compel Soul

make it answer your questions and serve your bidding.

to

You must first use Summon Soul to cause a wraith to appear for you, then engage in a Social Challenge for the turn in which it manifests. The wraith may expend its Pathos (see Oblivion) to resist, forcing you to expend a Social Trait for each Pathos Trait spent. If you win the challenge, the wraith is bound to obey your commands for an entire hour. The wraith must answer your questions truthfully and act as you direct. During this time, the ghost remains visible and audible to you as well.

If you successfully Compel Soul, you may expend a temporary Willpower Trait to force the wraith to obey you for the entire evening. Expending a permanent Willpower Trait causes the wraith to be bound to your will for a year and a day.

Haunting

Your powers of necromantic compulsion allow you to force a ghost to remain in a particular location, or near a specific object. With a cryptic phrase and a powerful command, you bind the wraith so that it may not leave.

You must engage a wraith in a Social Challenge in order to link it to a particular location. If you win, the wraith cannot leave the room (or move more than 10 feet from a particular object) for the remainder of the evening. By spending a temporary Willpower Trait at the time of the Haunting, you can force the wraith to remain in the location for a full week; a permanent Willpower Trait extends this time to a year. If the wraith attempts to leave the location, it suffers one aggravated level of damage per turn outside the confines of the Haunting until it returns or is destroyed utterly.

ADVANCED SEPULCHRE PATH NECROMANCY

Torment

There is a reason that ghosts fear the most puissant necromancers of the Giovanni. Through the use of Torment, the necromancer can inflict actual damage on the dead, punishing them for their indiscretions.

Though you remain in the physical world, you can make Physical Challenges against wraiths. You lash out with supernatural energies, though many Giovanni choose to direct the blow by striking physically. Your attacks inflict lethal damage on the wraith; a wraith discorporated with this power is banished to the deeper levels of the Underworld for a full month, unable to return.

THE ASH PATH

The barriers between this world and the Underworld of the dead are permeable to the student of the Ash Path. With this path, a necromancer can see, hear and communicate with wraiths of all sorts, not just the ones that he can summon or control. Indeed, with enough skill, the Ash Path allows a vampire to cross the Shroud into the lands of the dead. This frightening power thus allows for myriad effects as the vampire reaches into the Underworld and deals freely with the denizens therein.

Disciplines

153

Retests with the Ash Path rely on the Occult Ability. At the Storyteller's discretion, the specialized Ability of Wraith Lore may be used instead.

BASIC ASH PATH NECROMANCY

Shroudsight

With minimal effort, you can see across the Shroud that separates the world of the living from the lands of the dead. The Underworld appears as a decaying and ghastly reflection of the mortal world, sometimes with structures lost to the past or unusual spirits flitting about. You can see (though not hear or feel) anything that transpires in the Underworld within your normal visual range, with a sort of "double sight" that does not hinder your normal vision.

You need only expend a Mental Trait to look across the Shroud for the duration of the scene, or for an hour, whichever comes first.

Lifeless Tongues

The babble of restless spirits is clear to you. By concentrating for a moment, you attune your senses to the Underworld, making yourself capable of both seeing and hearing all that transpires there around you. Furthermore, you can understand the language of the dead, so unless a ghost goes out of the way to use a language that you do not know, you can comprehend the words of any wraith.

You must expend a Willpower Trait to attune yourself to the Underworld for a scene or an hour (whichever ends first).

INTERMEDIATE ASH PATH NECROMANCY

Dead Hand

The structures and entities of the Underworld are very real to you. In a bizarre sort of half-life, you can stretch your physical form across the Shroud, interacting with beings and scenery there even as your physical body remains partially in the living world.

By expending a Willpower Trait, you make yourself capable of touching the contents of the Shadowlands for a scene or an hour (whichever comes first). Each additional scene or hour, you can maintain this power at the cost of one Blood Trait. During this time, you do not actually pierce the Shroud, but your actions affect both worlds. Thus, you can climb a ghostly rope, then turn and step onto a real-world roof. You can also lash out physically and strike or grapple with ghosts, though they can return the attacks. However, you cannot push or pull objects from one world to the next. Effectively, you exist in both realms simultaneously, which can be very disturbing to those watching you climb invisible ropes or grapple unseen opponents.

Ex Nihilo

Tearing through the Shroud between worlds, you can cross into the lands of the dead. This journey is a harrowing one, for many spirits wait to take vengeance on necromancers, and the Underworld is full of hazards unknown to most vampires. Furthermore, there is no way to gather blood or sustenance in the Underworld, and you can become lost in the storms and seas of the deadlands. Still, this power allows for direct contact with shades of the restless, and it serves as an unusual means of travel. While you are in the Shadowlands, you still see everything that transpires in the mortal world, but your physical form exists in the realm of the dead.

You must first mark a doorway with chalk or blood on any available surface, taking a full turn to do so. (You need not actually draw such a door, but you should pantomime the appropriate actions.) You must then expend a Willpower Trait and two Blood Traits, and make a Static Physical Challenge with a difficulty of eight Traits. If you succeed, you step through the door into the Underworld. Returning to the material world is a matter of concentration; you need only focus your intent to do so and expend a Willpower Trait, at which point you return to the living lands

Laws of the Night

at the end of the turn. Beware, though, for if you wander too deeply into the deadlands, you may become lost and unable to pierce the Shroud.

When you travel into the deadlands, you take with you only the inanimate objects that you carry. You cannot pull in other living or undead creatures. Furthermore, the laws of physics in the Underworld are not the same as those of the material world; guns do not work, and electrical devices fail. Generally, you must rely on your own powers.

ADVANCED ASH PATH NECROMANCY

Shroud Mastery

Your control over the barrier between the living and dead worlds is nearly absolute. Instead of stepping across or watching the events of the Underworld, you can actually manipulate the fabric of the Shroud. By changing the strength of the web between worlds, you can make it easier to cross, or bar wraiths from exerting their influence on the material world.

You must expend a Willpower Trait to exercise Shroud Mastery. Then, you may raise or lower the Shroud, as you desire. Each Mental Trait that you expend alters the strength of the Shroud by one point in either direction. A stronger Shroud makes it more difficult for wraiths to interact with the living, while a weaker Shroud has the reverse effect. You can raise the Shroud up to a maximum of 10, or lower it to a minimum of three. The "typical" Shroud rating for most locations is 7 or 8, though areas frequented by vampires or ghosts (cemeteries, crypts, mortuaries and sites of Elysium) may have ratings of 4 or 5.

If you are simply using wraiths as generic antagonists, each point of change in the Shroud's strength grants the wraith bonus Traits when interacting with the living world (if the Shroud is weakened) or acts as a penalty to the wraith's total Traits (if the Shroud is strengthened). If you are using the rules from Oblivion, the Shroud's effects are explained on p. 161.

THE BONE PATH

The Bone Path controls death's physical ends. Corpses are the medium of power for such a vampire, and they can be imbued with unwholesome energies and animated to perform according to their master's bidding. Zombies and soulless automatons are the hallmarks of the Bone Path.

Retests of the Bone Path use the Occult Ability. The Storyteller may choose to use the specialized Ability of Thanatology instead, if desired.

BASIC BONE PATH NECROMANCY

Tremens

You can instill a corpse with a brief jolt of life. Though this power is insufficient to actually animate or control bodies, you can make them start or twitch spasmodically. Naturally, this sight frightens those unaccustomed to the mobile dead.

You need expend only one Blood Trait to use Tremens. The body then twitches or moves briefly in a fashion that you dictate, from sitting up to blinking to flailing an arm momentarily. If you expend a Physical Trait as well, you can implant a command into the corpse instead, causing it to move (once) as you direct when a certain event comes to pass. Corpses twitching in this fashion cannot actually attack or inflict damage, but they can certainly startle the unwary.

Apprentice's Brooms

Your skills in the Bone Path allow you to animate the dead, bringing ambulatory motion and a semblance of understanding to a cold corpse. Though they cannot fight, these zombies follow simple instructions, performing tasks that you set to them.

You must expend a Blood Trait and a Willpower Trait to use Apprentice's Brooms on one or more corpses, and you must also spend one Mental Trait for each Disciplines

corpse so animated. These corpses have four health levels, and they do not suffer penalties for injuries, but they cannot fight. Corpses animated with this power continue to perform a single task as you direct until they complete the job or until time or damage destroys them. Cadavers continue to rot even after being imbued with this energy, though only at the slow rate of one health level per month.

INTERMEDIATE BONE PATH NECROMANCY

Shambling Hordes

When you raise the dead to do your bidding, they come in skeletal hordes and withered masses that obey your every command, working and fighting until de- stroyed. Any body, no matter how decomposed, can be raised to serve your will.

You must expend a Willpower Trait to call on the Shambling Hordes, and then invest one Mental Trait and one Blood Trait for each corpse animated. As long as the skeleton is reasonably intact, the corpse rises to do your bidding. Such guardians can perform tasks or fight for you with no regard to their own welfare. They typically have four health levels (though heavily damaged corpses may have less), and they suffer no wound penalties. These zombies fight with the same number of Physical Traits that they possessed in life (assume five Traits for randomly chosen corpses). They can be given orders to attack people or to guard an area, and they wait tirelessly until destroyed. Decomposition will continue for corpses in varying states of decay, although completely skeletal guardians will be unaffected.

Soul Stealing

Your mastery of animate flesh and spirit allows you to pull the soul from a living or undead body. With Soul Stealing, you draw out the victim's soul, turning it temporarily into a wraith while leaving the body as an empty husk.

You must expend a Willpower Trait and engage your target in a Social Challenge to use this power. If you succeed, the soul is torn from the body, forced to remain as a ghost for a full hour or scene. You can then use other Necromancy powers to bind the hapless spirit as long as it is separate from the body. The body itself continues to survive in a comatose state, a perfect host for other possessing spirits.

ADVANCED BONE PATH NECROMANCY

Daemonic Possession

Though you are not dealing with actual infernal spirits, you can cast a willing soul into a fresh corpse or inanimate body. Thus embedded, the soul takes control of the body, turning it into a new physical home. Dead bodies continue to decay, and thus, they last no more than a week, but this trick provides a perfect temporary repose for a free-floating soul or summoned ghost.

The body must have died within the same scene in which you use Daemonic Possession, or else it must be alive or undead and bereft of consciousness (for instance, if you have removed its soul or if the owner is currently using Subsume the Spirit, Possession or Psychic Projection). Bodies of vampires in torpor do not make suitable hosts, as the vampire's spirit is still inside the torpid body. You need not make any challenge or expenditure---with an appropriate host and spirit, the process is automatic once you exert your power. NECROMANTIC RITUALS

The sinister secrets of Necromancy are not confined to the static paths alone. Skilled necromancers create rituals, forms of magic designed to go beyond the basic capabilities of Necromancy. With the appropriate materials, training and time, a necromancer can use rituals to create wide-ranging or long-lasting effects that would otherwise be difficult to do with simple paths.

On learning Necromancy, the individual leams one Basic ritual. For each level of Necromancy learned, another ritual of the appropriate level is also learned; thus, a Laws of the Night

150

necromancer with Advanced Necromancy knows at least two Basic rituals, two Interme diate rituals and one Advanced ritual. Leaming additional rituals requires the expenditure of time and Influence, as appropriate. Learning a ritual also requires that the vampire possess a level of Necromancy equal to or greater than the ritual's level of power.

Casting a ritual requires a Static Mental Challenge with a difficulty of nine Traits. Unless otherwise noted, Basic rituals take 10 minutes to cast, Intermediate rituals require 20 minutes and Advanced rituals take 30 minutes.

BASIC NECROMANTIC RITUALS

Call of the Hungry Dead

With 10 minutes of time and a hair from the head of your prospective victim (represented by a card), you afflict your target with the cacophonous moaning and wailing beyond the Shroud. The victim is assaulted with a welter

of confusing voices and mournful howls. For the remainder of the scene or the next hour, the target suffers the Negative Mental Traits Oblivious x 2 due to the confusing hail of otherworldly noise.

Eyes of the Grave

Over a time of two hours, you can concentrate the deathly emotions in a pinch of grave soil and use it to conjure visions of death and horror. Once you complete the ritual, you focus these images at the victim, who sees random intermittent flashes of her own gruesome demise.

Once during the remaining evening, you may force the subject to fail a retest, as a shocking vision of death overcomes her. For instance, if you are engaged in combat with a victim of this ritual, who fails a test but calls for a retest with an Ability, you may use the effects of this ritual to negate the use of the Ability and force the victim to either find an alternate means of retesting or to suffer the outcome of the original challenge. Only you may invoke this benefit - other people may not use this ritual's power against the victim, even if they are aware that you have cast the ritual.

Spirit Beacon

By casting this ritual over a severed human head, you turn it into a supernatural beacon for ghosts. Within the Shadowlands, the head appears to glow with an unearthly radiance, emitting light from its mouth, ears and eyes. Any wraith viewing the Underworld radiance from this head must expend a Willpower Trait or else be immediately drawn to the light for a full hour (or until the end of the scene). The head loses its light at the next sunrise, though it may be enchanted again.

INTERMEDIATE NECROMANTIC RITUALS

Cadaver's Touch

By chanting hideous paeans while melting a wax figure of your victim over a three-hour ritual, you cause the subject to lose all semblance of life. The mortal subject of this spell becomes much like a vampire, with a weak pulse, cool skin and a pale countenance. As long as the wax is melted without boiling off or solidifying, the ritual keeps the victim in such a pallid state.

The mortal subject of Cadaver's Touch gains the Negative Trait Repugnant for the duration of the ritual, as he literally resembles a walking corpse. However, this ritual can be very useful for sending a mortal unnoticed among vampires, or causing hunters to mistake a mortal for a Cainite.

Call On the Shadow's Grace

After casting this potent ritual, you become able to peer through the veil obscuring the Shadowlands, and to detect the dark side of every wraith. You can speak directly to the Shadows of ghosts, conversing with their dark sides and learning their secrets. Furthermore, you can coax deadly plots and treacheries from the recesses of the living or undead, simply by communing with their shadowy sides.

Disciplines

Casting Call On the Shadow's Grace on a living or vampire target requires that you best your opponent in a Mental Challenge. If you win, one of the victim's Flaws or Negative Traits is immediately revealed to you. To cast this ritual on a ghost, perform the same Mental Challenge with your target. If you win, the wraith enters Catharsis, bringing his Shadow boiling to the surface. For more information on the Shadow, see Oblivion.

Ritual of the Unearthed Fetter

This three-hour ritual is most often used by skilled necromancers of the Sepulchre Path. By casting this ritual with the finger bone of a corpse, you attune the bone to any material objects, people or places that may have significance to the finger bone's owner-specifically, to the ghost of the dead individual. You take a chip of a grave marker, crush it and sprinkle it over the bone while intoning the ritual. When complete, the finger bone acts as a sort of spiritual compass, pointing toward objects of vital importance to its wraithly owner.

Once you have attuned a finger bone with this ritual, you can use it to find Fetters of a particular wraith, assuming that the remains in question are of an individual who became a ghost. You can therefore determine whether a particular place, object or person is a Fetter for a wraith. By spending a turn testing a suspect item with the finger bone, you can ask a ghost or Narrator whether it is a Fetter to that particular ghost. Remember, though, that the finger bone only finds Fetters of its owner.

ADVANCED NECROMANCY RITUALS

Grasp the Ghostly

Casting this potent ritual requires a full six hours of chanting. Once complete, you reach into the Underworld, pulling a ghostly object from there and replacing it with an item of your own of roughly equivalent mass. You can only use this ritual on objects, not on people, vampires or ghosts.

Once you have pulled an item from the Underworld, it maintains a solid existence, though its plasmic matter fades slowly from the real world. After a full year, the item in question vanishes forever. This ritual only works on objects that once existed in the real world and that now have ghostly relic equivalent. Artifacts -objects created by wraiths in the Underworld-are not affected by this power; attempting to bring them across will destroy them.

ОВЕАН

Though modern Cainites know the Salubri as soul-stealing demonologists, the powers of Obeah are a strange mixture of defense and healing. Indeed, powerful Salubri can apparently repair the very scars of the Beast on a Cainite's psyche. Of course, few would trust the Cyclops enough to undergo such treatment. As these powers irrevocably mark the user as a Salubri or ally of such, they are almost never seen or heard of by other vampires-no Salubri would give away his position to Cainites who might betray him to the Tremere, nor would he teach such fatal secrets to another.

Once a vampire learns the Basic power of Anesthetic Touch, he develops a third eye in the middle of his forehead. This eye opens any time an Obeah power of Anesthetic Touch or higher is used. Cainite scholars speculate that the eye may, in some way, be connected with the mystical (or demonic) insight that grants this Discipline.

Retests of Obeah use the Medicine Ability.

BASIC OBEAH

Sense Vitality

The ebb and flow of life is obvious all around you. You can feel the pulse of life force with a touch, even sensing the energies of people or Cainites with whom you come in contact.

Laws of the Night

158

You must touch your subject to use Sense Vitality. With a successful touch, you can unearth information about the subject's life force by spending Mental Traits. Expend- ing one Mental Trait tells you if the subject is a mortal, vampire, ghoul or other creature. Two Mental Traits tell how much damage the victim has suffered. Three Mental Traits reveal the amount of blood in the subject's system, while four Mental Traits reveal any diseases. These expenditures are cumulative; that is, any expenditure of Mental Traits includes the information for a lesser expenditure automatically.

Sense Vitality may also be used for medical diagnosis, determining the source of injuries or diseases afflicting a victim. Anything that could be learned with a medical examination the source of the injury, the wound's severity, the reason behind unnatural mental states or death can be learned with a touch. Each condition examined in this fashion requires the expenditure of a Mental Trait. Thus, determin- ing that a subject was injured with a poisoned knife would cost two Mental Traits- one to recognize the wound as a knife wound, and one to recognize the poison.

Anesthetic Touch

Pain flees at your caress, and a peaceful stillness falls on those under your care. Any voluntary subject touched (other than yourself) can be rendered immune to pain. You can also cause mortals to descend into a natural, healing sleep.

You must touch your subject to use Anesthetic Touch, but as it only works on willing subjects, doing so generally requires no challenge. Expending one Blood Trait causes the subject to suffer no penalties from wounds for the next full turn. If you also expend a Willpower Trait, the pain-numbing effects last for the rest of the scene, or for an hour, whichever ends first.

Alternately, you can cause a willing mortal to sleep. You must expend a single Blood Trait. The mortal immediately enters a deep, peaceful slumber, suffering no nightmares or derangements. The subject can be awakened normally. If the mortal sleeps for an entire natural sleep cycle (which will happen automatically if uninterrupted), then the mortal's Attribute Traits are refreshed and one Willpower Trait is restored on awakening.

Anesthetic Touch has no effect on vampires. INTERMEDIATE OBEAH

Corpore Sano

The power of your blood carries healing vitality. Touching the injuries of a subject, you cause them to close and heal immediately.

You must touch an area on or near an injury to invoke Corpore Sano, possibly requiring a Physical Challenge if the victim is for some reason unwilling (a vampire who does not trust the assurances of a diabolical Salubri, for instance). Each Blood Trait that you expend heals one health level of lethal damage on the subject immediately and completely; aggravated damage requires two Blood Traits per level healed. If your generation precludes you from spending enough Blood Traits to heal the target completely, you can maintain your contact over the course of several turns in order to heal severe injuries. You are not required to heal all damage that a target suffers -you can spend as much or as little blood as you like over the course of the healing.

Mens Sana

Soothing words and supplicating paeans calm the mind of your subject, gifting mental peace to the disturbed. Whether by psychological discourse or religious exorcism, your words carry away the worries and problems of disturbed individuals.

Using Mens Sana requires you to spend about 10 minutes in uninterrupted, quiet conversation with the subject. You must expend two Blood Traits and make a Static Mental Challenge with a difficulty of the subject's Mental Traits -- more complex

Disciplines

159

minds are harder to cure. If you succeed, you alleviate one of the target's derange- ments. Although a Malkavian can never be cured of his core problem permanently, this power can affect even such madness, temporarily removing the derangement for the rest of the scene or the next hour (whichever comes first). Other subjects are relieved of the burden of insanity permanently.

Mens Sana cannot be used to cure your own derangements. ADVANCED OBEAH

Unburdening the Bestial Soul

Perhaps the most incredible power of Obeah, Unburdening the Bestial Soul allows you to lift the terrible stains of the vampiric Curse from the soul of a target. You literally take the subject's soul into communion with your own, soothing the psychic scars and trauma that afflicts the victim. Though you cannot remove the Curse of Caine from a subject, you can heal the most terrible emotional trauma that weighs down most vampires.

When you remove a soul for healing with Unburdening the Bestial Soul, the subject's body is devoid of consciousness. As a result, the empty shell cannot be affected by Mental or Social Disciplines, as there is no personality to affect. However, it does make a perfect host for wandering spirits or ghosts. Unless possessed by an outside consciousness, the body automatically follows your simple verbal commands as long as you hold the soul. Without free will, though, the body cannot perform any task but autonomic functions unless you direct it specifically.

Unburdening the Bestial Soul functions only on a willing subject, and you must make eye contact with the target. Then, you make a Static Physical Challenge against the subject-the difficulty is two Traits for every Humanity/Path Trait that the subject falls below six (a subject with three Humanity Traits, for instance, has a static difficulty of six Traits). This power only functions on vampires with Humanity Traits, or on the Paths of Harmony or Honorable Accord, and it cannot affect a subject who has no remaining Humanity/ Path Traits.

Once you remove a subject's soul, you can expend permanent Willpower Traits to restore Humanity/ Path Traits on a Trait-for-Trait basis. You can restore the subject up to the normal maximum of five Traits.

If you fail to care for the subject's body while holding the soul, or try to hold the soul after the subject wants to return to his body, you risk losing your own Humanity (make a Conscience/ Conviction Virtue Test, difficulty four Traits). The soul can make a Mental Challenge against you once per night to break free in such a case.

You cannot use Unburdening the Bestial Soul to restore your own Humanity/Path Traits. OBFUSCATE

As creatures of cunning, intrigue and misdirection, Cainites possess an uncanny knack for deception and stealth. For some, though, this ability goes far beyond normal subterfuge. Such vampires actually cloud the minds of people around them, dulling notice and directing attention elsewhere. As a result, these vampires can remain obscured from observation, perhaps even extending their concealing powers to other

objects and people.

The powers of Obfuscate are often employed by the Assamites in their assassination work, and by the Followers of Set, who surreptitiously ferret out secrets and watch over their quarry. Malkavians use this power to escape notice when engaged in their insane activities. The undisputed masters of this Discipline, though, are the Nosferatu, who use its mind-numbing powers to gather secrets and hide their fearful countenances.

Because Obfuscate clouds the awareness of its targets, they avoid notice of a concealed individual and to rationalize away such attention unless it is forced on them. Thus, if a vampire is concealed with this Discipline while wandering about a room, people avoid her Laws of the Night

subconsciously. If she sits in a chair while hidden, others ignore the chair, taking other seats or standing but failing to notice her innocuous presence or the "mysteriously empty" seat. This concealment is generally broken if the hidden individual deliberately interacts with the environment, by picking up or dropping something, speaking to someone, touching a person or manipulating an object-the amount of concealable activity varies with this Discipline's power, as shown in the individual levels. The concealment of Obfuscate functions against all of the senses, because it actually forces attention away from the hidden individual. Thus, the presence of a Nosferatu wandering about with Unseen Presence is not betrayed by any telltale odor of the sewers.

Cross your arms in front of your chest to represent your use of Obfuscate, displaying a number of fingers on each hand corresponding to your highest level of power (one for Basic, two for Intermediate, three for Advanced).

The Discipline of Auspex can sometimes be used to pierce the veil of Obfuscate. An individual with Auspex (or a similar power of supernatural sensitivity) may penetrate Obfuscate if he is already looking for hidden individuals. The searcher may engage in a Mental Challenge with the hidden subject. For each level of difference between the subject's Obfuscate and the searcher's Auspex, there is a Trait modifier on a one-for-one basis to the outcome of ties or overbids. If the searcher wins, then he pierces the Obfuscate and senses the hidden vampire normally. If the concealed individual wins, the searcher remains oblivious to her presence. Thus, if a vampire with Vanish from the Mind's Eye (an Intermediate power) uses Obfuscate while trying to evade a vampire with only Heightened Senses (a Basic power), the hiding vampire gains a two-Trait bonus on the Mental Challenge, and if successful, he remains unseen. This bonus applies even if the sneaking vampire uses a lower level of Obfuscate than he actually possesses, so using Unseen Presence is still potent against low levels of Auspex if the vampire actually has Interme diate or Advanced Obfuscate. Similarly, simple Heightened Senses and the like gain the full benefit of the vampire's best level of Auspex, so a vampire with Psychic Projection is extremely difficult to fool, even if only using the Basic levels of sensory powers.

Obfuscate powers last as long as they are maintained, and they generally require no particular effort. These powers conceal the user and everything worn or carried. The Stealth Ability is used for retests by augmenting the Discipline with natural shadows and concealment. Hidden individuals cannot use Willpower to defend against Auspex challenges to Obfuscate (they cannot "will" themselves into a more hidden state).

BASIC OBFUSCATE

Cloak of Shadows

By remaining still and relying on natural cover, you can blur the apparent lines of your form and make it difficult for people to notice you. While nobody is watching, you can use cover to fade from view. As long as you remain completely silent and unmoving in a shadowed place or behind some sort of cover, you may cross your arms in front of your chest to represent the use of Obfuscate. While thus hidden, nobody but a Cainite using Auspex (or another supernatural creature with similar sensory acuity) can spot you. This concealment vanishes immediately if you move, speak or interact with your environment in any fashion.

Unseen Presence

Your powers of concealment allow you to fade from view, and then to wander about while remaining unnoticed. Any time that you are hidden from sight, you may invoke this Discipline, crossing your arms in front of your chest to represent Obfuscate. Once concealed, you may move about at a walk and remain unnoticed. This concealment remains as long as you do not speak, make any loud noises or interact with your environment - you can wander about unnoticed, but you automatically become visible if you open a door, attack a person, exert the Presence Discipline or knock over a vase, for instance.

Disciplines

161

INTERMEDIATE OBFUSCATE

Mask of a Thousand Faces

By twisting perceptions around you, you cause others to see you not as you really are but as someone different from your actual physical appearance. Generally, this power causes people to ignore your features, making you unassuming and average. However, with concentration, you can assume a specific hallucinatory visage, or even copy the features of another individual.

While using the Mask of a Thousand Faces, your features seem bland and unremarkable. Most often, people will describe you in vague, general terms relating to your normal appearance, but without any specifics, unique features or details. (Nosferatu and Samedi in particular find this power useful for assuming a semblance of their mortal countenances.) If you expend a Mental Trait, you may assume a specific set of features instead, causing those who look on you and who do not pierce your disguise to see, hear and smell the form that you choose. Thus, you can make your hair seem to be of a different color, change your apparent facial features, or seem to exude the smell of a specific perfume (or no smell at all). Note, though, that this power does not change the appearance of anything that you wear or carry-only your physical features are obscured. A Mask of a Thousand Faces remains until you fall asleep, are knocked unconscious or torpid, or are killed.

You still use your normal Social Traits while using the Mask of a Thousand Faces. You can copy an image of fewer Traits deliberately, but if you hope to masquerade as someone with more Social Traits, you must expend Blood Traits to match that person's total Social Traits. Otherwise, your appearance and mannerisms mysteri- ously fail to convey the person's countenance properly. You cannot use the Mask of a Thousand Faces to assume more Social Traits than your generation would allow you to possess, so you may have difficulty duplicating the incredible grace of an elder. In either case, you still use your normal Social Traits; the assumption of the Mask of a Thousand Faces merely causes you to appear like someone of more or less social acumen and appearance.

Vanish from the Mind's Eye

The incredible powers of your stealth allow you to remain hidden even while speaking or moving about. You can even fade from plain sight, disappearing from the view of any onlookers.

When using Vanish from the Mind's Eye, you gain all the benefits of Unseen Presence, but with some additional power. You may vanish from view at any time, without having to seek cover. To do so, you simply declare your intent, and then make a mass Mental Challenge against any onlookers (regardless of Auspex) who care to challenge your powers-you bid one Mental Trait for each onlooker, and throw one symbol against all of them. If you succeed, you fade away, unnoticed by anyone. Even if some people notice you, you can attempt to fade from their view again on consecutive turns. Fading away with Vanish from the Mind's Eye does not count as an action, but it happens only at the end of a turn. Thus, if you strike someone and then attempt to disappear, you must wait until the end of the turn.

Additionally, you may speak aloud while using this Discipline, and still attempt to remain hidden. Again, if you speak, you must make a mass Mental Challenge against everyone trying to detect your position, regardless of Auspex. Anyone losing to you fails to locate you, simply hearing a disembodied voice; those who best you manage to pierce the veil of your Obfuscate. You still cannot remain invisible while interacting physically with your environment, screaming, exerting Presence or attacking, but you could take such an action and then try to fade away, as described previously.

Laws of the Night

ADVANCED OBFUSCATE

Cloak the Gathering

Your powers of concealment extend beyond your own form. With an effort, you can throw your disguising powers over several people, hiding them all from view or masking them with hallucinatory guises.

To use Cloak the Gathering, you must spend one Mental Trait for each subject cloaked. You can then exert any Obfuscate power that you possess over the targets. Thus, you could choose to spread several Masks of a Thousand Faces over your allies, making them all look like different people (or even making some look like clones), or you could shroud a group with Vanish from the Mind's Eye, causing them all to fade from view. When you exert this power, you must meet all of the normal conditions for the Obfuscate that you extend-you cannot cast Cloak of Shadows over someone who is not hidden behind cover or shadows, for instance. If you cause a group of people to Vanish from the Mind's Eye, you need only make one Mental Challenge to extend the effect over your entire group. Anyone who bests you sees through the cloak, while anyone who loses to you fails to notice anyone under the cloak. You can only cast out a power that you are using, and you can only extend one power at a time. Individuals under the effects of Cloak the Gathering still sense one another normally. Of course, a cloaked individual could use his own Obfuscate powers to remain unnoticed to other people under the cloak. If an individual under Cloak the Gathering violates the provisions of his loaned Obfuscate in some way (say, by launching an attack), then he immediately loses the benefits, but the cloak itself remains intact. Only if you violate your Obfuscate does the cloak fail. Similarly, if a character with Auspex attempts to breach your concealment, individuals noticed under the cloak do not compromise the protection for everyone else, but if you are noticed, then the entire cloak fails.

Cloak the Gathering only throws your Obfuscate over other creatures or entities. You cannot use Cloak the Gathering to shroud a house, for instance, but you can certainly conceal a small group of vampires and all that they wear or carry. OBTENEBRATION

The bailiwick of the Lasombra clan, the Obtenebration Discipline summons forth and shapes a strange, cloying darkness. This darkness is wholly unnatural. It mutes sound, absorbs light and sometimes seems to have a tangible substance. Some Cainites claim that this darkness is a reflection of the primordial void before Creation, while others hold that it stems from the vampire's blotted soul. Whatever the source, this shadowstuff is certainly terrifying to those unused to its manifestations.

Any given vampire can see through her own Obtenebration darkness automati- cally without penalty, unless otherwise noted. Creations of other users of the Discipline are just as impenetrable to other Cainites with the power, though.

Occult retests are appropriate for the Obtenebration Discipline's powers, though shades used in a more mundane fashion (like attacking or grappling) should use the appropriate Abilities (like Brawl or Melee).

BASIC OBTENEBRATION

Shadow Play

You can exert a limited degree of control over existing shadows and darkness. At your mental command, darkness can be made to deepen or retreat, lengthen, move, flicker or undulate disturbingly. Though you can only affect a limited area of shadow, the stuff takes on a hellishly cloying quality and bends to your supernatural will.

You must expend a Blood Trait to use Shadow Play; once activated, it lasts for the duration of the scene or for an hour. You can affect one individual with the flapping,

Disciplines

disconcerting shades of this power. If you choose to conceal yourself, you gain one bonus Trait in all challenges of stealth and ranged combat. By pulling shadows around you into a terrifying mantle, you may alternately gain one bonus Trait in all challenges of intimidation. If you decide to afflict a victim with flapping, twisting shadows, the subject suffers from the Negative Trait Clumsy due to the distraction, and is disconcerted and asphyxiated by the darkness. A mortal enveloped in this fashion may even be strangled; a mortal with three or fewer current Physical Traits loses one Physical Trait every turn, and then loses one health level per turn as long as the morass continues to attach to her. Should the mortal lose all of her health levels in this fashion, she chokes to death.

Directing the shades of this power to conceal or surround you is automatic, but attacking an individual with the strangling shadows requires a successful challenge of your Mental Traits versus the target's Physical Traits.

Shroud of Night

You can evoke a cloud of inky blackness, a blob that absorbs all light and distorts sound. Hovering preternaturally in the air, this globe feels like a heavy morass to all those engulfed within.

You need only expend a Blood Trait to create a sphere of blackness roughly 10 feet in diameter. You can even create the cloud in a location outside of your line-of-sight, at the cost of one Blood Trait, as long as it is within 50 feet of your location. Victims enveloped in this globe suffer the Negative Physical Trait Clumsy while they are engulfed, and mortals with five or fewer current Physical Traits may be strangled, like the power of Shadow Play. (The Trait penalties and strangling damage from this power are not cumulative with Shadow Play, though.) You can even cause the tenebrous cloud to move at a speed roughly equal to a walk, as long as you concentrate fully on such motion.

Inside the Shroud of Night, all light sources other than fire are extinguished and sound is muffled. All victims of the cloud (except yourself and those with some means of seeing through Obtenebration) suffer the penalties of total darkness: They lose two Traits in resolution of challenges, and they are forced to make a single retest on any successful challenge because of the darkness. Even those with Heightened Senses and Eyes of the Beast are affected; each removes one penalty Trait from the effects of the cloud (the forced retest is not removed).

Your Shroud of Night, once created, lasts for the entire scene or hour, or until you dispel the darkness to whatever nether region from which it came.

INTERMEDIATE OBTENEBRATION

Arms of the Abyss

From the shadowy corners of a room or the blackness of night itself, you can summon forth tentacle limbs that flail about, ensnaring or attacking as you desire. These black shadow tentacles animate as you direct, even while you take other actions. You can pull many tentacles from a single source, or generate shades from several locations at once.

You must expend a Blood Trait to create the shadow tentacles; every tentacle created costs one Social Trait. The tentacles are six feet long and they possess three Physical Traits and four health levels. Each additional Blood Trait spent in the creation can gift one tentacle with an extra Physical Trait, or increase one's length by an additional six feet.

Once created, your shadowy tentacles remain for the duration of the scene, unless you dispel them or fall into unconsciousness or torpor. You can control the actions of the tentacles even while performing other actions. The tentacles can grab, whip, hold items and perform other tasks with precision. The tentacles take damage normally from attacks, and they suffer from fire and sunlight just like a vampire, though they are considered to have any Fortitude that you may possess. You can add your Potence to the might of the tentacles as well, though not at the same time as you are adding your Fortitude. You may not combine the effects of Obtenebration with the powers of any other Disciplines.

Laws of the Night

164

Black Metamorphosis

Spewing forth your own stained inner spirit, you meld your corpselike body with the very stuff of tangible darkness. Your head and limbs seem to fade into shadow, while bands of blackness striate your body and shadowy tentacles sprout from your torso.

You must expend two Blood Traits and a Social Trait to evoke this power. You immediately sprout four tentacles just like those of the Arms of the Abyss power, though they are considered extensions of yourself and they use your Traits. The chilling darkness about your body and infusing the tentacles afflicts anyone you touch with the Negative Trait Clumsy as their limbs are numbed with supernatural cold. You may make one additional attack at the end of each turn by using the tentacles, in addition to any strikes that you normally gain or make with Celerity (this extra attack is added to your attack sequence, not multiplied if you have extra actions). You gain the bonus Traits Intimidating x 3 while taking on this demonic aspect. Lastly, you suffer no penalties from any sorts of mundane darkness.

The Black Metamorphosis lasts for one scene or one hour. ADVANCED OBTENEBRATION

Tenebrous Form

At this level of skill, you no longer summon forth the darkness within yourself - you become it. Your form collapses into a shadowy outline, a pseudo-liquid humanoid shape of utter blackness. While in this form, you can slither about through tiny holes and cracks, and you may see through any normal darkness.

You must expend three Blood Traits and spend three full turns in concentration, doing nothing else, in order to make this transformation. While in Tenebrous Form, you cannot be harmed by physical attacks, although you still take damage from magic, fire and sunlight. You also cannot affect your surroundings physically, as you have no real solid substance. By enveloping a victim, though (with your Mental Traits challenging his Physical Traits as an attack), you can perform the same functions as the Shroud of Night power, causing disorientation, darkness and smothering. You are unaffected by gravity, and you can slither along any surface or move like a blob of ambulatory liquid. You can even use mental Disciplines while in this state, though within the limitations of your form-you have no eyes and thus cannot use Dominate, but you could hide your shadowy form with Obfuscate. In this shadow form, your Blood Traits are the same sort of inky darkness, and thus, they are unaffected by the powers of Thaumaturgy.

While in Tenebrous Form, fire and sunlight are exceedingly painful to you; thus, you suffer a one-Trait penalty on resolution of Courage Tests. POTENCE

All vampires are capable of preternatural strength by human standards, simply through the use of blood. With Potence, though, this strength extends far beyond such measures. The inhuman might of Potence is sufficient to allow a vampire to break bones, shatter stone, even heft and destroy heavy or resilient objects. Vampires using Potence in battle are fearsome indeed, delivering telling blows that fell even their undead adversaries. Most uses of Potence above the Basic levels are considered a breach of the Masquerade among Camarilla Kindred.

The Potence Discipline is most commonly known by the Brujah, Giovanni, Lasombra and Nosferatu clans, all of whom prize physical strength and prowess. As Potence is a highly useful capability and requires little effort on the part of the vampire in question, many Cainites seek out tutors in this Discipline.

The Potence Discipline, as a physically augmenting Discipline, does not use any Ability for retests other than the Ability commonly associated with whatever task

Disciplines

103

is at hand. That is, when striking someone while using Potence, one should use the normal Brawl Ability for retesting.

BASIC POTENCE

Prowess

You have unearthed a level of strength unusual in vampires. Where others would flag and fail, you redouble your efforts. Your mighty blows land with a force that kills even the hardiest mortals.

With Prowess, all of your unarmed or clubbing attacks inflict lethal damage instead of bashing damage, if you so desire. Furthermore, once per game session, you may recoup your lost strength, restoring all used Physical Traits of Brawny, Ferocious, Stalwart, Tough and Wiry. You must restore all of them at once- if you have some Traits of the appropriate type unused when you invoke Prowess, you cannot restore them later. Using Prowess costs nothing, and it does not count as an action; it may be done at any time.

Might

Your strength daunts even other Cainites. Few would dare to cross you in a test of physical power. You are far more likely than the average vampire to succeed in challenges of strength.

With Might, you may make a single retest on any challenge of sheer physical strength. Thus, if you are grappling, picking up a heavy object or breaking some- thing, you can use Might as a retest. Once you invoke Might, it is the last test of the challenge; no further retests are allowed. Might costs nothing to use.

You may use Might even if your opponent attempts to evade your strength. Your power is so startling that even an opponent who attempts to outlast you with stamina or to dodge you with quickness can be overcome, as long as you rely solely on your strength. Doing so generally requires you to bid a strength-related Trait, such as the types of Traits restorable with Prowess. Obviously, if you cannot exert your Might, you cannot make this retest-thus, you cannot use Might at range, with a thrown object (requiring speed and accuracy). You could use Might while trying to grab at a dodging opponent, but not when picking up and throwing a heavy object.

INTERMEDIATE POTENCE

Vigor

Your vampiric strength is truly monumental. You can heft hundreds of pounds with ease, deliver enough force to crush bones in a single blow and hammer down any opponent of lesser strength.

When you possess Vigor, you may use the Bomb in challenges of strength. The Bomb is a closed fist with the thumb sticking up. The Bomb defeats Rock and Paper, ties with other Bombs and loses to Scissors (the fuse is cut). You are not required to use the Bomb, but you must always state before a Physical Challenge that you are capable of doing so. Using Vigor costs nothing. Your use of Vigor requires you to use only your strength; your opponent may try to defend with stamina or speed, but his doing so does not prevent you from using the Bomb.

Intensity

Your titanic strength never fails you. Unless sorely pressed or wounded, you can continue incredible feats indefinitely.

Whenever you enter a challenge of strength, you may use Potence as your bid Trait. This Trait does not count toward totals when resolving ties or overbids, but it can never be lost; thus, you may continually use Potence in successive tests of strength. Only if you are forced to risk multiple Traits such as due to wounds or Negative Traits do you risk losing any of your other Physical Traits.

Laws of the Night

100

If you run out of Physical Traits, you cannot use this Discipline. Once you have been completely exhausted, you can no longer enter challenges.

ADVANCED POTENCE

Puissance

No mortal can match you, and even vampires tremble at your touch. The strength of your dead limbs is truly monumental, crushing anything that stands before you.

With Puissance, you win all ties in tests of strength automatically. You need not compare Traits at all, unless some other factor would cause you to lose ties (such as wounds) or give the opponent the ability to win all ties as well (such as Fleetness).

Furthermore, your incredible strikes inflict an additional health level of damage in combat. This bonus applies to any attack in which your strength is a factor- unarmed combat or combat with melee weapons. However, use of this incredible strength almost certainly breaks weapons that are not specially designed to stand it. PRESENCE

To many, vampires seem to exude an air of command, sensuality or intimida- tion. For a master of Presence, emotions are playthings to be manipulated and stimulated. When many Cainites survive through careful manipulation of mortal society, the ability to sway emotions and control passions is a powerful capability indeed. More than simply using intrigue or carefully rehearsed acting to influence others, vampires with Presence literally project auras of power or dread.

The Presence Discipline is most common among vampires of the Brujah, Follower of Set, Toreador and Ventrue clans. Brujah often use Presence to whip mobs into righteous anger, while Followers of Set influence their "customers" subtly. Toreador cultivate an air of artistic beauty, and Ventrue rely on their control of emotions to influence and rule their "subjects." Unlike Dominate, which affects the rational mind directly, Presence affects emotions. Thus, it is a more subtle form of control. However, subjects of Presence are less predictable than Dominate victims. Also, whereas Dominate requires that the victim see the user's eyes, Presence usually requires only that the user's face be visible -some Presence powers do not even require that much exposure.

Retests with Presence use the Leadership Ability.

BASIC PRESENCE

Awe

The sight of you turns heads. When you let your charisma shine, you draw attention naturally. People try to be close to you, and even those disinclined to listen to you give some consideration to anything you say or do.

When you are involved in a Social Challenge, you may expend one Social Trait to invoke Awe, gaining an automatic retest. You may only use this power once per Social Challenge. You may use Awe in a mass challenge, but you must expend one Social Trait for each person retested against.

Dread Gaze

By hissing, baring your fangs and allowing your vampiric features to rise to the fore, you can terrify mortals and even shake the resolve of other vampires. Though few would risk the wrath of an angry Cainite, your fearsome visage goes beyond that, driving supernatural terror into the hearts of your victims.

By making a Social Challenge against your foe, you strike terror into your victim. If you succeed, the subject flees your presence and tries to avoid you for the rest of the scene or hour. If cornered, the victim will still defend himself, but he will do his best to escape you. The subject defends himself normally, but he must risk an additional Trait if he wishes to attack or act against you, just as if he were wounded.

Disciplines

167

Using this Discipline actually requires you (in character) to hiss, bare your fangs and otherwise make your vampiric countenance known, so it is a rather obvious breach of the Masquerade.

INTERMEDIATE PRESENCE

Entrancement

When you bring your charm to bear on an individual, you are almost hypnotically magnetic. Individuals affected by your Presence find your manner irresistible.

You must make a Social Challenge against a target to exercise Entrancement. If you succeed, the target is favorably disposed toward you, and she will not insult or attack you for the rest of the scene (or for an hour). Indeed, a formerly neutral subject wants to aid you and act as your friend; even a previously hostile target is rendered neutral. If you take a hostile action against the subject, of course, the Entrancement is broken immediately, and it may not be used against the subject again in the same scene.

Summon

Extending your incredible manipulative powers, you can draw others to your location. Your victim need not see you, or even be seen by you-as long as the subject is known to you, you can Summon him to your side. Once called, the subject tries to get to you by whatever means possible, completely unaware of the supernatural nature of the desire and avoiding situations that would prevent fulfilling the compulsion (like locked rooms and overprotective allies). The compulsion lasts until the victim manages to arrive and make his presence known to you.

To Summon someone, you must ask for a Narrator's assistance. Inform the Narrator of the person that you wish to Summon, as well as your number of Social Traits and whether you are using the Leadership Ability. The Narrator then finds the subject, performing a Social Challenge in your stead and using the Leadership Ability for a retest if necessary. If the challenge succeeds, the subject comes to you as previously described. If the challenge fails, the subject manages to resist the Summon. In either case, you have no knowledge of the outcome, so there is no guarantee of success. Of course, if the subject does not appear, you can wait five minutes and then attempt to Summon the victim again. You can only Summon someone that you know-at bare minimum, someone that you have had the chance to talk with for a few minutes, or someone who has been a target of your Presence powers before. If another individual then uses Summon on your subject, the victim heads to the summoner of the most powerful generation; if multiple summoners are of the same generation, the victim goes to the first one to exert the power. Should two vampires of equal generation simultaneously Summon the same victim, then the Narrator should make a Social Challenge between the two, with the victim heading to the victor.

In the unusual case that Summon is used on a false identity (an identity created with Mask of a Thousand Faces, for instance), the Summon still brings the appropriate individual. If multiple individuals use the same false identity, then the first Summon calls whichever is nearest (generally, whichever one a Narrator finds first), and any further Summons then call the same individual. Thus, if three Malkavians using Mask of a Thousand Faces all pretend to be the same imaginary person, a Summon of that person brings whichever of the Malkavians is nearest and then calls that Malkavian for any future uses of Summon.

ADVANCED PRESENCE

Majesty

The force of your personality makes even the most stalwart tremble. When you exert your Majesty, heads bow, hearts break and spines quiver. None would dare to challenge you or risk your ire, for your ambiance is without peer.

Laser of the Night

168

By expending a Willpower Trait, you exert your Majesty for the duration of a scene or a full hour. You can represent this power's effect by holding your arms out from your sides, or with a special card or ribbon. As long as you have Majesty, nobody may insult you or attack you as long as they are within 10 feet of you and able to see you. A subject may attempt to break through your Majesty by making a Social Challenge against you, but must spend a Willpower Trait to make the attempt. Failure means that the subject cannot challenge your Majesty again in the same scene.

If you attack someone or undertake a hostile action while using your Majesty, the aura fades automatically and immediately as your onlookers are startled or outraged. You may still use your Social and Mental Disciplines as long as they do not inflict direct harm-you may still Entrance or Dominate a subject-but a deliberate attack disrupts your Majesty.

When attempting to penetrate Majesty, a Willpower Trait may be used for a retest. This is an exception to the normal rule that Willpower is used only to defend against Mental and Social Challenges.

PROTEAN

Survival in the wilds is difficult indeed for vampires, who must find means to avoid sunlight, hunt and evade marauding Lupines. The shapeshifting Gangrel, though, have mastered this craft, and their Protean Discipline is thought to be a large factor in their success. With Protean, the vampire can alter parts of her body to draw on the strength of natural forces.

Retests for Protean, if applicable, should use the Survival Ability. BASIC PROTEAN

Eyes of the Beast

With a moment's pause, you can make your eyes able to see in absolute darkness. An eerie red glow emanates from your eyes, and you can see perfectly well in pitch-blackness.

You need only declare your intent to use Eyes of the Beast, and at the end of the turn, the change is complete. You suffer no penalties at all for natural darkness while using this Discipline. However, you do suffer the Negative Trait Bestial due to your red, glowing eyes, unless you take steps to conceal them (most commonly, with sunglasses). Using this power is also a rather obvious breach of the Masquerade.

Feral Claws

Like a wolf or bear, you have powerful claws capable of rending flesh. You can grow these claws at will with a simple effort; they sprout mystically from your otherwise normal hands, and similarly retract when you desire.

By expending a Blood Trait, you cause Feral Claws to extend from your hand (and feet, if you so desire) at the end of the turn. These claws have the bonus Trait Sharp, useable in combat or in climbing, and they inflict aggravated damage.

INTERMEDIATE PROTEAN

Earth Meld

For a traveler in the wilds, Earth Meld is an invaluable power. With this Discipline, you sink into the bosom of the earth, able to sleep mystically undisturbed within the soil. You must be touching raw soil to Earth Meld; you cannot sink through stone, wood, concrete or other substances. You immediately begin sinking eerily into the earth itself, taking with you only your clothing and small personal possessions that you carry (such as a cellular phone or a small pistol). Using the power protects you completely from daylight and allows you to sleep undisturbed. You remain unaware

Disciplines

of what transpires around you, and indeed, you are not fully of the material world at all. While in this state, you cannot move, except to rise at will.

While bonded with the earth, you remain in a semi-tangible state, partially diffused into spirit by your connection to the soil. Thus, you cannot be readily detected either physically or with spirits. If you patch of soil is disrupted in any fashion, you immediately return to physical form and complete wakefulness, shooting up to the surface and showering dirt in all directions. You cannot act during the first turn that you rise from the soil in this fashion, though if you rise up of your own accord (which you may do at any time), you are fully aware and able to act normally.

You must expend a Blood Trait to Earth Meld. Sinking into the ground requires a full tum, during which time you can do nothing else (because you are descending slowly into the ground).

Shape of the Beast

Ancient tales of vampires tell that they assume the forms of wolves and bats. Though most vampires consider this nonsense, elder Gangrel sometimes possess the transmutive power to change into animal forms. With Shape of the Beast, you can shift your physical body into that of an undead beast, mimicking a normal animal. Most vampires change into wolves or bats, though some possess different forms dependent on their cultural and geographic ties-jackals in Africa, dingoes in Australia or giant rats in major cities have all been reported.

Shifting into animal form costs one Blood Trait and takes three full turns (each additional Blood Trait spent lowers the transformation time by one turn, to a minimum of one turn with three Blood Traits). You remain in beast form until the next dawn, or until you decide to change back. Clothing and small personal possessions change with you.

In animal form, you can use any of your normal Disciplines except Necromancy, Serpentis, Thaumaturgy and Vicissitude (the inability to speak may make Dominate difficult, of course). Wolf form grants you the bonus Mental Traits Alert and Attentive, as well as the effects of Feral Claws and improved running speed. Bat form grants you flight capability and the benefits of the Merit: Acute Hearing, though you possess a maximum of three Physical Traits in that form.

The animal forms granted by this power are in all ways physically identical to normal animals, though of course they are dead, animated corpses as befits a vampire.

ADVANCED PROTEAN

Mist Form

Your control over your physical form is so complete that you can dissolve into a fine cloud of mist. You disperse into a floating cloud, still able to sense your surroundings and able to move about as you desire. This cloud form can slip through tiny cracks and holes, and it cannot be dispersed by the mightiest of natural winds. Assuming Mist Form costs one Blood Trait and takes three full turns (additional Blood Traits reduce this time at a one-for-one cost, with a minimum of one full turn at three Blood Traits). You may change back instantly at any time. You are immune to mundane physical attacks in this form, and you take one less level of damage from fire and sunlight automatically. You are still affected normally by mystical attacks, though of course you have no blood in this form, so much of Thaumaturgy is useless against you. Though you cannot affect the world physically, you can still use Disciplines that do not require a physical form (you cannot use Dominate, for instance, because you have no eyes, but you could exert Presence). While in Mist Form, you may move as desired at the pace of a brisk walk, although you can be pushed about by strong winds.

Lases of the Night

QUIETUS

The deadly assassins of the Assamite clan study the Quietus Discipline. By transmuting their blood into poison, they deliver death to their targets in terrible silence and agony. This Discipline has become significantly altered since the report of the broken blood curse, and those Kindred familiar with the clan whisper that such powers have not been seen in centuries.

Though many uses of Quietus may involve striking with a blood-covered hand or spitting vitae at one's foes, this transformed blood is more of an alchemical poison than a form of vitae. Thus, blood used with this Discipline cannot later be gathered and used to form blood bonds or as a focus for Thaumaturgy.

Most Quietus powers are not directly opposed, so they do not use retests. Using Quietus with a physical attack, for instance, simply involves the normal uses of Brawl, Melee and similar Abilities in the attack. If spitting blood at an opponent (a function of several different powers), use Athletics for a retest.

BASIC QUIETUS

Silence of Death

The first skill learned by a true assassin is the ability to travel in complete stealth. The mystical Silence of Death permits you to extend a field of silence about yourself, blocking all screams, gunshots, explosions and so on.

When you use Silence of Death, you muffle all sound within 10 feet of yourself. Although sound from outside can still come into this radius and be heard, no sound emanates from anything or anyone close to you. Using this power costs one Blood Trait to invoke, and the effect lasts for a scene or an hour.

Scorpion's Touch

With the deadly venom and toxins of your studies, you can transmute your blood into a substance that weakens and poisons your victims. You can then coat weapons with this foul ichor, spit it at your foes or simply bring it to the surface of your skin to affect your victim by touch. Unwary foes may actually drink such tainted vitae.

Each Blood Trait that you spend on this power is converted into a dangerous poison. If this tainted vitae touches a victim or is otherwise ingested into her system, she loses one Physical Trait automatically. Thus, you can strike someone with your hand (and a Physical Challenge) and cause the victim to lose an additional Trait due to your venom. You can coat weapons of dagger-size or larger with this poisonous blood, or even kiss your opponent. You can even make a Physical Challenge against anyone within 10 feet to spit this blood at a victim. (Do not actually spit at your foe, of course

\- simply make your intentions known before making the challenge.)

Mortals who lose all of their Physical Traits in this fashion become deathly ill by the next night, and they do not heal normally. See the effects of severe illness in Laws of the Hunt. Otherwise, all lost Physical Traits return at the next game session, as usual.

Any given attack may only use one Trait of blood with this power, though multiple attackers with poisoned weapons could wreak deadly havoc on a single victim. Similarly, you can only spit a single Trait of this tainted vitae or strike unarmed with a single Blood Trait in each action. Altering your blood in this fashion does not require an action on your part - you can strike an opponent with your hand, for instance, and then declare the use of Scorpion's Touch with a single Blood Trait. You can concentrate multiple Blood Traits onto a single weapon, though each strike uses only one Trait of blood (and thus reduces only one Physical Trait from the victim). Of course, preparing yourself thus is a legitimate tactic if you think you will be in a protracted fight and you want a weapon sufficient for several strikes.

Disciplines

INTERMEDIATE QUIETUS

Dagon's Call

With a touch, you can infect a victim with a small quantity of your own vitae; later, with a bit of concentration, you cause that very blood to burst forth from the victim, tearing her apart from the inside.

You must touch your target physically before using this power (which may require a Physical Challenge). Thereafter, at any point in the same scene or within the next hour, you can issue Dagon's Call-you need not even be able to see the target. You expend at least one Willpower Trait and call for the aid of a Narrator. Each Willpower Trait that you spend at that point then forces the target to make one Static Physical Challenge; the Narrator will take note of your Physical Traits and go to perform the tests against your subject. Each test that the victim fails indicates one level of lethal damage as her very blood tears its way through her vessels and organs. You must declare all Willpower Traits that you expend at once; once you have activated this power, you cannot invoke it again on the same subject until you manage to touch her again.

Baal's Caress

The toxins in your vitae are sufficient to burn through any flesh, living or undead. This poison melts through flesh once it comes in contact with the bloodstream, leaving other materials unharmed. Indeed, even Cainites without blood in their systems can be affected if the poison enters through a wound.

To use Baal's Caress, you must spend a turn to transform your vitae into poison and then put that blood on an object or weapon of dagger-size or larger. Each Trait of blood so placed on a bladed or piercing weapon causes that weapon to inflict aggravated damage with one strike. Thus, if you place three Traits of blood on a knife with this power, then the next three successful strikes with the knife inflict aggravated wounds. The weapon in question must penetrate the victim's flesh with a successful blow; blunt weapons or unarmed strikes, for instance, cannot use this vitae with any appreciable effect. Blood cannot be placed on bullets; not enough can be applied for appreciable damage, and most of it will be lost during the flight and initial impact.

Note that you must actually place this blood on something and it must enter the target's system in order to have any effect. You cannot randomly bleed on a subject and inflict damage.

ADVANCED QUIETUS

Taste of Death

Your concentrated blood is so powerfully toxic that you can merely spit it at a foe and watch it burn through her skin. The ichor evoked with this power does not affect metal or stone, but melts through flesh and bone, reducing it to smoking sludge.

You can spit a single Blood Trait at a victim with this power (this counts as a single action). If you successfully strike with a Physical Challenge, the victim takes one level of aggravated damage. You must directly spew this blood out; if it misses the victim or is placed on an object, it loses its toxicity within the turn. Note that the blood must be deliberately converted into a poison in this fashion-your own blood can still be drained from your body without poisoning the drinker. SERPENTIS

The Followers of Set use Serpentis, a power connected with the snakes that are the hallmark of Set's worship. The uncanny capabilities of this Discipline are disturbing indeed, marking the Follower as something far different from human- or even from other vampires. Despite the cold, reptilian features of this Discipline, many of its manifestations are strangely alluring. Followers of Set attribute this facet Laws of the Night

to their capacity to sway the emotions of their victims, digging out buried secrets and bringing hidden vices to the surface.

Most Serpentis powers involve no challenge to use, or are simply used with combat. Any power used for a direct challenge should use Subterfuge for a retest.

BASIC SERPENTIS

The Eyes of the Serpent

The legendary hypnotic gaze of the serpent is yours. When you meet the gaze of a victim (who need only be able to see your eyes), your eyes become gold with large black irises, capturing the attentions of your subject. As long as you hold the gaze of the target, he remains completely immobilized.

You must make a Social Challenge to affect your target with this power. If you succeed, the target is paralyzed as long as you hold his gaze with your own. Of course, if the target is attacked or injured, the hypnotic spell breaks.

The Tongue of the Asp

At will, you can cause your tongue to shift in shape to that of a snake. The supernatural razor-edge on the forked tongue inflicts terrible wounds, striking up to a foot and a half away, and it even lets you drink blood from your victims.

You need only decide to use The Tongue of the Asp in order to gain the benefits of this power. Your tongue inflicts one aggravated wound with a successful strike (requiring a Physical Challenge); furthermore, on successive turns you can drain blood from the victim as if drinking directly. This draining even causes the Kiss, paralyzing mortal victims with helpless fright and ecstasy.

The Tongue of the Asp is highly sensitive to vibrations. Using this Discipline while in darkness allows you to reduce the penalty Traits for natural darkness by one..

INTERMEDIATE SERPENTIS

The Skin of the Adder

The power of your reptilian blood allows you to erupt into a serpentine form of protective scales and snakelike flexibility. You can thus transform into a monstrous hybrid of humanoid and snake, an effective engine of war or a terrible slithering beast of intimidation.

You need only spend a Blood Trait and a Willpower Trait to invoke this power. At the end of the turn, The Skin of the Adder overtakes you, covering you in a mottled scaly hide and lending a whiplike flexibility to your limbs. You gain the bonus Traits Lithe and Tough. Your mouth also distends like a snake's, so that your bite causes an additional wound if you win (not tie) a Simple Test after biting (though you can still feed without causing any extra damage, if desired). Your cartilaginous body can also fit through any opening wide enough to accommodate your head. Due to the hideous nature of your snake-form, you gain the Negative Social Traits Bestial and Repugnant while in this form. Obviously, being in this form rips the Masquerade wide open if you're spotted by mortals.

The Skin of the Adder remains in effect until you decide to transform back, or until the next sunrise.

The Form of the Cobra

No longer limited to steps between man and snake, you can literally turn into a giant cobra. This reptile form grants a venomous bite and the ability to slip through small passages, while still allowing you to use any Disciplines that do not require hands or speech. In this form, you retain your normal weight, so you are a tremendous, black-and-gold nightmare serpent.

You must expend one Blood Trait to transform into The Form of the Cobra. The change takes a full three turns, and the rate cannot be accelerated. Clothing and

Disciplines

small personal effects change with you. You remain in serpent form until the next sunrise, unless you decide to change back earlier. Additionally, the venom of your bite is poisonous to mortals.

ADVANCED SERPENTIS

The Heart of Darkness

Egyptian legend tells that the hearts of the dead are weighed against a feather in the afterlife; those found wanting are devoured, while those found worthy move on to eternal paradise. As you have already cheated death with your immortality, you can now cheat this judgment as well. On the new moon, you can pull your very heart from your unliving body; with several hours of surgery (out of play), you can even do the same to another vampire.

No test is necessary to remove the heart, but the subject must be willing. While most vampiric flesh rots and decays in a single turn after being separated from the body, the withered heart coaxed forth with this power remains intact. Anyone whose heart is removed in this fashion is therefore immune to staking. Most often, the Setite carefully places the heart in a guarded clay urn, perhaps surrounded by other false hearts to avoid discovery.

As the heart is considered the seat of emotion, you gain a bonus Trait in Virtue Tests to resist frenzy. However, you also lose any Empathy Abilities, plus any Social Traits relating to warm interactions with people, such Friendly, Empathetic or Genial.

If a separated heart is staked, then its vampiric owner (the vampire that the heart originally came from) is immediately paralyzed. Should the heart be exposed to fire or sunlight (even a single health level's worth), it is destroyed and its owner erupts into flame, reduced to ash (and Final Death) in a single turn.

Use of The Heart of Darkness can also return a stolen heart to its former body. Obviously, trying to use this power on a mortal, even a ghoul, is messily fatal. THANATOSIS

The corpselike bodies of vampires are innately tied to death. No Discipline reflects this process of arrested decay so clearly as Thanatosis. The Samedi bloodline practices this nightmare Discipline, using its powers to control the very steps of death and decay. Indeed, fearful Cainites whisper that Thanatosis grants some control over the Curse itself, temporarily suspending the immortality of vampires and even reducing them to rotting masses.

The Stiffs do not share their secrets of death, though mercenary Samedi are more than willing to visit the discomfort of Thanatosis briefly on too-curious subjects. This Discipline seems to be a natural outgrowth of the Samedi fascination with death and decay. Strangely, other Cainites who unearth this Discipline do not suffer from the rotting affliction of the Stiffs, leading to some speculation that the bloodline suffers its peculiar curse for other, more sinister, reasons.

Retests of Thanatosis involve the Occult Ability. Optionally, Storytellers may choose to use the more specialized Thanatology Ability for Thanatosis retests.

BASIC THANATOSIS

Hags' Wrinkles

You can contract or expand your skin, sending it into baggy, rippling waves or pulling it taut over your undead flesh. Hags' Wrinkles obviously can mask your appearance, but you can also use little pockets of flesh to conceal small objects about your person, although such bulges or depressions may be visible if your skin is not already marred (say, by the signature deformities of the Nosferatu and Samedi) or found during a pat-down search.

Laws of the Night

Reshaping your flesh with Hags' Wrinkles takes a full turn of effort and the expenditure of a Blood Trait. For the rest of the scene or for the next full hour, your features are unrecognizable and you can conceal up to two objects of jacket or smaller concealment class within the folds of your withered flesh.

Putrefaction

The Samedi are feared for their control over decay, and Putrefaction is the first manifestation of such power. Supernatural decomposition afflicts any flesh that you touch, if you so will it. Pustulent, festering decay spreads from your point of contact, even rotting the preserved flesh of vampires.

Putrefaction requires you to best your victim in a Physical Challenge while expending a Blood Trait. Should you succeed, the victim suffers one health level of lethal damage and gains the Negative Trait Repugnant until the damage is healed. This sort of wound is accompanied by rotting flesh, decaying teeth and bones, festering sores and fungus-ridden patches. You can strike a victim multiple times with this power, spreading the rot. You can even affect vampires and plants in addition to other living creatures, withering and decaying them.

INTERMEDIATE THANATOSIS

Ashes to Ashes

Tearing apart the bonds that hold your physical form together, you collapse suddenly into a desiccated heap of ash. The power of Ashes to Ashes allows you to retain your consciousness, though, keeping you in a pile of fine detritus that can reform later into your original vampiric body.

You must expend two Blood Traits while concentrating for a full turn to use Ashes to Ashes. When you take your action, you transform into a pile of thick, sticky ash. You can vaguely sense your surroundings (about 10 feet in all directions) at this time, and you are completely immune to physical attacks, fire and sunlight. If the ashes are separated, though (a tedious and disgusting task, requiring deliberate effort), you reform missing some parts of your body the largest remaining pile reforms as yourself, but you take lethal health levels of damage depending on how much of your substance was removed. Should you reform while contained in some object, you burst forth, shattering the object as you resume your usual size.

Withering

By gripping an enemy and channeling your own dead energy into his limbs, you can cause him to twist into an aged, withered and decrepit form. Terrifying pain results as limbs shrink and snap from Withering.

You need only touch or strike a victim with a Physical Challenge and expend a Willpower Trait to use Withering. The subject immediately suffers the Negative Traits Clumsy and Lame, as the shrunken limb is rendered completely useless, and he suffers one health level of bashing damage (in addition to any damage from the blow). Vampires and other supernatural creatures heal the effects of Withering at the end of the night, but mortals and living animals are afflicted permanently.

By making two successful Simple Tests (win only) after striking with Withering. you can strike the head instead of a limb. Doing so kills mortals instantly and causes vampires to suffer the Negative Traits Oblivious and Witless in addition to rendering them unable to use the powers from Celerity, Fortitude and Potence.

Withering is not cumulative on the same limb, but successive strikes can certainly afflict other limbs. Victims with multiple limbs affected suffer all of the Negative Traits appropriately. With no functional arms, a victim cannot attack physically; with no legs, the subject cannot move.

Disciplines

ADVANCED THANATOSIS

Necrosis

The hideous decomposition induced with Necrosis disgusts and revolts even the hardiest constitution. Accelerating the forces of decay, you cause the target's skin to rot away and slough off, exposing internal organs in a terrifying panoply of pain.

Necrosis requires you to touch the victim and expend two Blood Traits. The subject immediately suffers a level of lethal damage as his skin rots and sloughs off in pieces. Furthermore, the victim takes the Negative Traits Decrepit and Repugnant as a result of the attack; these Negative Traits remain until the damage heals. Multiple strikes can inflict additional damage and Negative Traits in a cumulative fashion, rendering the victim a pool of putrescent liquid.

THAUMATURGY

Vampires are creatures of magic, and tales in the Book of Nod tell of rituals and powers unknown to the common spate of Disciplines. For the most part, such strange capabilities -controlling the weather, altering one's own blood, casting mystical lights and so on- remained the province of apocryphal tales. A rare few vampires learned to harness the power of their blood to perform magic, but most used only the gifts granted by the Curse.

In the Dark Ages, though, the Tremere clan rose to prominence through the use of Thaumaturgy. By combining their mortal wizardly knowledge with their new-found powers of blood, the Tremere discovered ways to control the manipulation of vitae, forcing it to perform specialized powers. Furthermore, with careful rituals, they were able to create wide- ranging effects, much like the powerful spells attributed to legendary sorcerers.

The Discipline of Thaumaturgy is the study of vampiric magic, the ability to shape the forces of vitae into directed mystical energy. Pioneered primarily by the Tremere, the Discipline is actually composed of several "paths." Each path represents a particular area of magical study: blood manipulation, fire control, warding or other, stranger effects.

When learning Thaumaturgy, you must specify one path as your primary path of study. Whenever you improve your Thaumaturgy, you improve your capabilities with that path. However, you can learn additional paths just like other Disciplines. You can never be as skilled in your additional paths as you are in your primary area of study, though, until you master Thaumaturgy. Thus, you cannot study additional paths until you have learned Intermediate Thaumaturgy in your primary path, and your secondary paths cannot exceed the Basic levels until you attain Advanced Thaumaturgy in the studies of your primary path. Once you learn Advanced Thaumaturgy, you may improve any of your other paths to the Advanced level as well through the use of Experience.

Thaumaturgy is the province of the Tremere clan, and they guard their wizardly secrets jealously. Indeed, learning even the rudiments of Thaumaturgy can take a year or more for vampires unskilled in the Tremere's arcane ways. The Tremere do not teach this Discipline to those outside their clan; vampires who wish to study Thaumaturgy must find a traitor to the Tremere or else engage in decades of intensive research with the rarest of occult materials and books. However, a few vampires outside the Tremere clan do study Thaumaturgy. Most notably, some Assamite viziers have learned to cast Thaumaturgy as a result of their studies of the Tremere curse and its underlying magic; however, as this magic is not native to them, their forms of Thaumaturgy always cost an extra Blood Trait. Within the Sabbat, some rare Tzimisce calling themselves koldum study the ways of Thaumaturgy that were brought by former Tremere defectors. Rumors hold that true koldun actually study a completely different form of sorcery, far older than Tremere Thaumaturgy, but none would ever wish to meet a Tzimisce old and twisted enough to know the truth of such matters.

Laws of the Night

170

In game terms, vampiric magic is usually referred to as Thaumaturgy, though not all Thaumaturgy is the same. A form of corrupting magic is supposedly practiced by the Followers of Set, for instance, yet it is totally different from and incompatible with the practices of Tremere magic. Of course, this fact does not stop the Tremere from using their knowledge to develop duplicates of such powers. This flexibility to devise paths (duplicating or opposing nearly any Discipline) is, perhaps, the greatest strength of Thaumaturgy.

The majority of Tremere neonates start learning the Path of Blood as their primary Thaumaturgy path, but a few start with other areas. Still, the sheer usefulness of the Path of Blood makes it more valuable than other specialized abilities.

Any use of Thaumaturgy requires the expenditure of a Blood Trait. Some specific powers may require additional expenditures as well. Thaumaturgy does rely on speaking magical phrases and gestures, and as such its use is generally noticeable. Unless otherwise noted, casting Thaumaturgy takes a full turn, and the magic takes effect at the time of your action. You cannot accelerate Thaumaturgy with speed- enhancing powers such as Celerity.

THE PATH OF BLOOD (REGO VITAE)

Almost every Tremere studies the Path of Blood as a primary form of magic. Espousing the clan's strengths in subterfuge, detection, manipulation and control, this path allows you to alter the properties of blood within your own system or to detect features of the blood of others.

The Path of Blood uses the Occult Ability for retests.

BASIC PATH OF BLOOD

A Taste for Blood

With but a small sample of vitae, you can determine a foe's capabilities and weaknesses. You need only taste a bit of blood in order to recognize many salient characteristics.

A Taste for Blood allows you determine a few traits of another individual, simply by tasting a single Blood Trait. From one Blood Trait, you can learn: How much vitae is currently in the subject's system (Blood Traits, whether mortal or vampire); how recently he has fed, if a vampire; generation, if a vampire and whether the Cainite in question is a diablerist (within the usual limits of detection time).

Using A Taste for Blood requires you to actually ingest the vitae that you test, so it can be dangerous if the blood is tainted or if you have already sampled some of the subject's blood.

Blood Rage

With but a touch you can stir up another Cainite's blood. Thus, you force the subject to expend blood in any fashion that you mentally decide when you touch the victim.

Blood Rage requires a light contact, which may necessitate a Physical Challenge against a wary subject. If you manage to get a firm grip, you can immediately force the subject to spend a single Blood Trait in any fashion that you desire, even beyond the usual limits of blood expenditure for the vampire. Thus, you can force a Cainite to increase his physical strength (gaining Physical Traits with Blood Traits), heal wounds (possibly even recovering from torpor) or even to sweat blood from his pores.

INTERMEDIATE PATH OF BLOOD

Blood of Potency

You can mystically concentrate the vitae within your system, making it more potent for a short time. Doing so affords you many of the benefits of a generation

Disciplines

superior to your natural one. You need only murmur for a moment, and your blood distills down to a more concentrated form.

Your Blood of Potency lasts for the duration of the scene or for the next hour, whichever ends first. You can expend Mental Traits to gain a "virtual generation," improving your maximum number of Blood Traits and making your Dominate Discipline able to affect more powerful Cainites. Each generation that you artificially lower costs two Mental Traits, to a maximum of six Traits for three generations.

Once you have used Blood of Potency in a night, you may not invoke it again until the next night. As soon as the power wears off, any Blood Traits that you possess in excess of your normal limits dilute immediately, leaving you at your normal Blood Trait limit.

If you are diablerized during this time, or if you Embrace childer, your real generation is used, not your virtual generation. Thus, even if you are virtually 10th generation while normally 12th, your childer are still 13th generation, and other vampires gain no benefit from diablerie if they are 12th generation or lower.

Theft of Vitae

Focusing on the call of blood, you can draw forth the vitae in a victim's system. You need only see your target and concentrate. The blood bursts from the victim's pores in a rushing flow, soaring through the air to be mystically absorbed into your own flesh.

You must be able to see a subject within 50 feet in order to use Theft of Vitae. As long as no intervening barriers stop the transfer of blood, the fluid rushes out of the victim (doing no damage to Cainites, but probably startling them) and sinks into your body. Essentially, you are able to ingest blood from a victim while at range. Using Theft of Vitae requires you to expend a number of Mental Traits equal to the amount of blood that you try to steal, up to a maximum of three Traits. You must make a challenge of your Mental Traits against the subject's Physical Traits after this expenditure, with success indicating that you tear forth a number of Blood Traits equal to the Mental Traits expended previously (subject to the limit of the victim's actual amount of blood). Blood stolen in this fashion has all of its normal properties -drinking three times from one vampire creates a blood bond, poisoned blood still sickens you, and so on.

Needless to say, this rather unsettling power is considered a breach of the Masquerade when used in public.

ADVANCED PATH OF BLOOD

Cauldron of Blood

The blood within any creature is vulnerable to your manipulations. Instead of controlling or stealing blood from a victim, you can bring it to a rolling boil with but a touch. Red mist rises from the victim's body as bubbling blood seeps from his pores and orifices. Few Cainites can withstand this internal furnace, and mortals are almost inevitably killed by such an attack.

Using Cauldron of Blood as an action, you must make a Physical Challenge to grasp your target. Then, for each Mental Trait that you expend, up to three, you can boil one Blood Trait in the victim's system (subject to the limit of the victim's actual blood, of course). Each Blood Trait boiled in this fashion inflicts one aggravated level of damage on the target.

THE LURE OF FLAMES (CREO IGNEM)

Perhaps one of the most feared forms of vampire magic, The Lure of Flames allows you to summon forth magical fire. The burning power of your blood is shaped into dancing flame that answers your command. Although such fires are small at first, masters of this path can conjure forth veritable hellstorms of unnatural flame.

Laws of the Night

078

Retests for The Lure of Flames use the Occult Ability.

BASIC LURE OF FLAMES

Hand of Flame

A dancing puff of fire surrounds your hand (or both hands) at your command. This palm of flame creates light and allows you to strike with your hand to burn your opponents. Once cast, the Hand of Flame remains until you decide to snuff it out. You can even use it in conjunction with other powers like Celerity and Potence, becoming a formidable combatant.

The Hand of Flame causes aggravated damage, if you strike with your flame- wreathed hand(s). You suffer no damage or inconvenience from the Hand of Flame; indeed, you may even wear gloves or other clothing, which remain unaffected by the fires. Should you cause something else to catch fire, that fire can later burn you. Invoking the Hand of Flame takes one action.

Flame Bolt

By pointing at a target and intoning words of power, you may launch a Flame Bolt. This dart of fire streaks through the air to wound whomever it strikes with a searing blast, and it causes readily flammable objects to catch fire.

Casting a Flame Bolt requires you to challenge your Mental Traits against a target's Physical Traits in order to hit. A Flame Bolt inflicts one level of aggravated fire damage when it strikes, then snuffs out in a puff of mystic fire. Should the Flame Bolt strike a readily flammable target (like a pile of hay or papers, but not clothing worn by someone), the target catches fire. You are not immune to your own Flame Bolt, if by some chance it should be directed back at you. Firing a Flame Bolt is a single action.

INTERMEDIATE LURE OF FLAMES

Wall of Fire

A column of flame erupts from the very air, burning with unnatural vigor at your command. You need only point to the desired location and utter the syllables of this magic in order to generate a veritable Wall of Fire. You can create this flaming barrier at any site that you can see, up to 50 feet away from yourself.

Casting a Wall of Fire takes a single action. A Wall of Fire occupies a space approximately six feet in diameter, and of equal height. If you cast the wall at a person's location, you use your Mental Traits in a challenge against the victim's Physical Traits. If you win, the fire shoots up underneath the subject, inflicting a level of aggravated damage. The wall remains until you decide to extinguish it, move more than 50 feet away or are knocked unconscious, fall into torpor, or die. Individuals moving through the Wall of Fire suffer a level of aggravated damage automatically each turn that they are within or passing through its confines.

If you cast a Wall of Fire at a flammable object or surface, the target may well ignite, spreading the fire. You have no special immunity to your own fires created with this magic.

Engulf

By staring intently at a subject and speaking the words of fire creation, you cause the victim to burst into flames, combusting rapidly. This fire burns the subject with horrible power, remaining until the subject manages to extinguish the flame.

Casting Engulf takes a single action. You must make a challenge of your Mental Traits against the target's Physical Traits in order to successfully Engulf a foe. If you succeed, the target bursts into flames, suffering two levels of aggravated damage from the fire. Furthermore, until the target takes a full action to smother the flame, he continues to suffer an additional level of aggravated damage at the end of every successive turn. The victim does, of course, score aggravated wounds

079

on others and light flammable objects he touches, but this incidental effect is obviously a secondary consideration.

You may Engulf a target multiple times in successive turns, causing cumulative damage as the victim combusts explosively. However, a victim blasted multiple times still only takes one level of damage per following turn due to the continuing fire.

ADVANCED LURE OF FLAMES

Firestorm

When you call to the flames, they come in a searing wash that fills an entire room. A Firestorm rains a hail of flame down across a huge area, burning everything within. Any place that you can see, within 50 feet, can be the target of a Firestorm.

When you call down the Firestorm, an area up to 20 feet in diameter is shot through with roaring sheets of flame. You make a mass challenge against anyone within, pitting your Mental Traits against their Physical Traits. Anyone who loses is struck with the fire, immediately taking a level of aggravated damage. Victims who cannot reasonably escape the area (because they are trapped in a dead end, perhaps, or because they cannot move fast enough to get out of the way) are burned automatically without recourse to a challenge, at the Narrator's option. All flammable materials in the area ignite immedi- ately, though people or vampires fleeing the space do not necessarily remain lit.

A Firestorm lasts until you stop it, or until you move out of range. It also ends immediately if you are knocked unconscious, sent into torpor or killed. Anyone who remains in the area of the Firestorm suffers one level of aggravated damage at the end of every turn after its creation. MOVEMENT OF THE MIND (REGO MOTUS)

Through Movement of the Mind, you can manipulate remote objects or even creatures. Though this path does not actually impart any sort of physical force, it allows you to control things as if you held them without actually touching them. You need only see the target in order to affect it.

Manipulation with Movement of the Mind does not provoke a tactile response. That is, you cannot remotely "feel" an object to tell if it is hot, rough, slippery etc. You simply impart motion into the item in question.

Retests of Movement of the Mind use the Occult Ability. BASIC MOVEMENT OF THE MIND

Force Bolt

Your concentrated will projects a bolt of force capable of stunning opponents and knocking over objects. A Force Bolt is really more of a sudden jar of motion to a target than an actual blow, but the effects are similar.

When you attack someone with a Force Bolt, you use your Mental Traits in a challenge against the victim's Physical Traits. If you win, the subject is knocked to the ground, losing his next action (not full turn - victims with Celerity may well recover in the same turn).

A Force Bolt can be used to lash out at an object no more than a hundred pounds in weight. If the object is not held by anyone, you can push it about five feet in any direction. An object held by someone can only be struck aside if you defeat the holder in a Mental versus Physical Challenge, as described previously. Obviously, though, this power is ideal for disarming foes at a distance, or for knocking aside valuable possessions.

Manipulate

Your control of forces allows you to exert fine manipulation over something at range. When you Manipulate an object, you can toy with it in any fashion that you could with one hand. Thus, you can remotely pick something up, push a button or fire a gun.

Laws of the Night

Using an object remotely takes your full concentration and thus counts as your turn. Additionally, the difficulty of fine control at range requires that you risk an additional Trait in any challenge with the object-if you Manipulate a gun to fire at someone, for instance, you must bid an extra Trait for the attack challenge. Objects hefted with this power can only move at walking speed, and they can be nothing larger than you could lift with one hand.

Anything you Manipulate remains under your control as long as you can see it, unless you release it from your spell deliberately. You must maintain complete concentration to Manipulate an object; when you stop concentrating or take a different action, the spell ceases.

INTERMEDIATE MOVEMENT OF THE MIND

Flight

You can telekinetically hoist a whole person, pulling the individual off the ground. You can also shove large objects around roughly, although you cannot control them easily. This level of power can slam doors, heft desks and snare opponents. Flight even lets you lift yourself off the ground and move at a brisk pace through the air.

When you invoke Flight on a particular subject, you can move it around at a brisk walking speed. You can move anything up to 200 pounds in weight, but you do not have fine control over the object, and the object cannot be used to bludgeon or cut (since it moves too slowly and erratically). If you grab a person with this power, using a challenge of your Mental Traits against the victim's Physical Traits, you can hoist the victim into the air, or even move him about slowly, though this power does not inflict actual damage.

Most spectacularly, Flight lets you move yourself smoothly at walking speed in any direction. You can soar as high as you dare go or simply hover off the ground.

Flight lasts only as long as you concentrate on the effect to the exclusion of all other activities. If you use this power on any subject besides yourself, you must be able to see the target in order to control it with Flight.

Repulse

A wave of motion overtakes everything around you with a simple gesture and a few spoken words. You can push away threatening opponents or shove objects with incredible power.

You can Repulse anything within your line of sight. Objects flung with Repulse move up to 20 feet away from you, and you can push multiple objects simultaneously. If you Repulse people, you make a challenge of your Mental Traits against each of their Physical Traits, as described in mass combat. Anyone who loses to you is flung 20 feet away. Even people who are grappling or biting you can be pushed away in this fashion. If you Repulse an object so that it strikes a victim, you use your Mental Traits to strike with it while the opponent dodges with Physical Traits. Objects hitting in this fashion do one health level of lethal damage.

Repulse is an instant effect; you cannot Repulse an object to strike someone and then continue shoving it around in successive turns. You must Repulse objects or people every turn that you wish to move them.

ADVANCED MOVEMENT OF THE MIND

Control

Gripping a target with mental force, you bend its motions to your will. As you direct its movements with your commanding magical phrases and gestures, it spins, flies and moves according to your direction.

Disciplines

181

When you Control an object, you can heft anything up to a ton in weight and manipulate it with precision equal to both of your hands. You can therefore hoist an automobile or tie shoelaces. These devices can be used to attack, doing one health level of lethal damage if they strike (as described under Repulse). You can even control a weapon remotely, scoring its normal damage, though this sort of fine manipulation requires you to bid an extra Trait in all challenges with it (as described under Manipulate).

People grabbed with Control can be rendered paralyzed, or they can be flung about at your will. Slamming a victim into a wall or other hard surface causes one level of lethal damage. You must make a Mental Challenge against the target's Physical Traits when you first exercise Control, and in any successive turn where you attempt to move the victim. Thus, you must win a test to grab the victim, and if you do anything other than immobilize him, you must make additional tests. Note that Control only affects the victim's physical motions; the subject can still talk, shout for help, use Disciplines and so on.

Exercising Control over one object or creature requires all of your concentra- tion. Once you stop concentrating, the power dissipates. Control is also lost if you lose sight of the subject.

THE PATH OF CONJURING (CREO MATERIA)

Creating objects from nothingness is a simple power with The Path of Conjuring. Just a few words and a mental image of the desired item allow for the sudden appearance of nearly any object. Any conjured object or creature is literally produced from nowhere.

Objects created with The Path of Conjuring are generic, with no distinguishing marks, and are always exactly the same every time they are conjured. You cannot conjure anything larger or heavier than yourself. Also, you must have a working familiarity with the object in question. Making this power its most effective may require you to possess certain Abilities. You would need a few levels of Firearms and Crafts: Gunsmith to make an Uzi, for instance, or Science and Medicine to conjure artificial pharmaceuticals. All such objects are conjured from Platonic ideals, not as sums of parts. Therefore, if the object is broken up into components, melted, altered or otherwise violated, the spell is broken and the substance dissolves into a viscous sludge that fades into nothingness.

Using The Path of Conjuring requires a full turn to create any one effect. Retests with The Path of Conjuring, when necessary, use the Occult Ability.

BASIC PATH OF CONJURING

Summon the Simple Form

Your rudimentary conjuring skills allow you to create basic objects made of a single homogenous material. These items are little more than chunks of matter, possibly crudely fashioned and lacking in any complex or moving parts. You can thus conjure a rod of metal, a club, a wooden stake, a rock or a lump of coal.

When you Summon the Simple Form, you can only make an item of inanimate matter of one sort. You cannot conjure living or undead creatures, nor can you make something built from multiple substances.

After you have conjured an item with this power, you must spend a Mental Trait at the beginning of every new turn in which you wish to keep it in existence. If you do not, the object vanishes instantly. You should record your current Mental Traits at the time that you create an object with this power, in case it is dispelled later with Reverse Conjuration.

Permanency

Simple objects that you conjure can now be invested with your power, making them real and permanent. You need not make an item permanent, but if you choose to do so, it remains without any further concentration or effort on your part.

Laws of the Night

182

Exercising Permanency on an item conjured with Summon the Simple Form requires that you spend three Blood Traits in the process of conjuring, instead of the usual one. The object is then considered whole and real, and it does not disappear unless banished with Reverse Conjuring.

INTERMEDIATE PATH OF CONJURING

Magic of the Smith

Complicated objects, mixed materials and moving parts are now within your purview. As long as you are familiar with an object's workings, you can make a copy of it. The Magic of the Smith can make knives, guns, clothes, medicines and other such useful items, and they all have permanent and lasting substance.

Creating an object with Magic of the Smith costs five Blood Traits instead of the usual one. Record your current Mental Traits on the item card at the time of creation, in case the object is later challenged with Reverse Conjuration.

Reverse Conjuration

You can send conjured objects back to the nether planes from which they come. Any item that you can see or feel can be subjected to this power with only a few words and simple gestures.

To use Reverse Conjuration on an item, you must make a Mental Challenge against the Traits recorded at the item's creation. This power works only on conjured objects, but you have no special way of telling a conjured item from a "real" one. You may banish any of your own creations without a challenge (although it still takes a full turn).

ADVANCED PATH OF CONJURING

Power Over Life

Though you cannot make true life, you can conjure creations that bear a semblance of life. Power Over Life lets you make any creature up to your own size. Such creatures have no independent will, though. They obey your commands mindlessly instead.

You must expend a phenomenal 10 Blood Traits to conjure a living creature. These simulacra last only for a week, after which time they dissolve back into nothingness. A creature that is killed similarly vanishes, as do any parts that are removed from the being (including blood),

HANDS OF DESTRUCTION (PERDO MATERIA)

The magicians of the Sabbat use magics designed to slay their foes brutally. The painful powers of the Hands of Destruction are one such straightforward path. Rumored to be the work of infernalists and demonic tutors, this path delivers agony and decrepitude on its victims.

Some few Camarilla vampires have unearthed this path, but it remains a rare curiosity among most thaumaturges. With the destruction of the Sabbat's Warlocks, the Hands of Destruction path is relegated to the few zealous warriors who manage to wrest its secrets from tomes or infernal pacts. A number of regents have barred practitioners of this path from their chantries on suspicion of infernalism, and many Tremere refuse to practice it because of its potentially demonic origins.

Exerting Hands of Destruction requires a single turn of casting. In some cases, it is used as a physical attack, and the spell and the attack are considered to take one turn, executed on the caster's normal action.

BASIC HANDS OF DESTRUCTION

Decay

Inanimate matter crumbles rapidly under your touch. Even dead organic material quickly melts into a puddle of putrescence.

Disciplines

183