, \*\*

4r

. -- -\_I

RICHARD Eo DA D ROBERT HATCH

Authors: Craig Bolin, Richard E. Dansky and Robert Hatch Developer: Justin Achilli Editor: Allison Sturms Art Director: Lawrence Snelly Layout & Typesetting: Richard Thomas Interior Art: Jason Felix, Michael Gaydos and Eric Hotz Front Cover Art: John Bolton Front & Back Cover Design: Richard Thomas and

78 PARK NORTH BLVD. SUITE 128 CLARKSTON, GA 30021

PUBLISHING

0 1997 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Reproduction without the written permission of the publisher is expressly forbidden, except for the purposes of reviews, and blank character sheets, which may be reproduced for personal use only. White Wolf, Vampire the Masquerade, Vampire the Dark Ages and Mage the Ascension are registered trademarks of White Wolf Pub- lishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Ron, Werewolf the Apocalypse, Wraith the Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, Werewolf the Wild West, Dark Ages Companion, Ghouls Fatal Addiction, Storytellers Handbook to the Sabbat, Book of Storyteller Secrets and Libellus Sanguinis Masters of the State are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. All characters, names, places and text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, Inc.

The mentionofor reference to any company or product in these pages is not a challenge to the trademark or copyright concerned.

This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters and themes. All mystical and supernatural elements are fiction and intended for entertainment purposes only. Reader discretion is advised.

Check out White Wolf online at http://www.white-wolf.com; alt.games.whitewolf and rec.games.frp.storyteller

PRINTED IN USA.

SPECIAL THANKS To:

Larry “The Therapist” Snelly, for working through my issues on Giovanni.

Andrew “What Closet?” Bates, for remaining firmly therein.

Phil “Back to Your Tower” Brucato, for the Mage histori- cal game name brouhaha. In E-mail. At length.

Katie“Out, Out, Damned Book\!”McCaskill, for working on the Wild West layout until smoke seeped from her eyes. Oh, wait, that was the cigarettes.. . . Charles “Enforcer” Bailey, for keeping those receivables coming in by whatever means necessary.

Brian “Dick Clark” Petkash, for cuttin’ loose on the GAMA dance floors.

Mike “Bargain Basement’’ Tinney, for the less expensive option on my Henry Rollins book proposal.

Rob “Merc for Hire” Hatch, for knowing the bottom line in all affairs.

Fred “Rescue Me” Yelk, for catching the Madonna bug at Old Wave.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Resere

RegeRe

In

INTRODUCTION: HOW TO USE THIS BOOK BOOK ONE: MAGISTERS - THE LASOMBRA BOOK Two:

BOOK THRENDS- THE TZIMISCE

\-

PATRICIANS THE VENTRUE

CORTE ASCEND

7

41

73

CONTENTS

3

Fall on us and hide us from the face of him who is seated on the throne...

\-Revelation 6:16

Who rules the night. The Childer of Caine. Whether by mandate of God, Lucifer, common weal or the simple right of strength, vampires are the undisputed lords in darkness. Tempt not the fickle whims of a ruler of the Blood, for their wrath is as boundless as their immortal unlives.

t vou hold invour hands is the first hook of the ch nfthew “Rlonrl

ed themselves in the affairs of nations.

The Lasombra, Magisters and lu albeit underhanded) nobility. As there is not yet heir efforts to controlling lands on both sides oft

Likewise, the Tzimisce are a fract e at this time, the Fiends are more anc vaunted hereditary lands.

this clan of noble li e more “common

kin. tle reader as. atures, rer

Part Two-The clans are very active in thc Part Three ct and - where All of their the “gamespeak” interests lie.

is pr

our-Character templates, for the u u will, but don’t expect them to be f all pretenses to the co believe. What grave mistakes have the clan.

For this reason, talk to your Storyteller befa this book. She may prefer that you be unable tc y the same token, Storytellers, feel free tc f the ideas herein. It’s your chronicle, and w

B

ook One: Magisters

"I understand Ibrahimsaid with deliberate slowness, "that Boukephos has not yet finished his business in the land of the English The Moor's hand drifted lazily in time with the faint music that poured forth from the house as he leaned over the railing and gazed south over the sea.

"Behas finished his business, good Ibrahim the Woot's companion replied "It is his pleasure that he follovos novo with his childe and the training thereof Seated and holding a goblet of what might have passed at a

ta distance, for voine, yusuf followedhis triens gaze over the waters Are you really that anrious for his return?"

“Patience, Ibrahim’s handsome features twisted into a frown. “Not

Yusuf. There will be other poet-kings for you to for his sake, no, but to see an end to this bickering. Montano,

grace with your presence.” the others - even our father- the old ones can’t be bothered

“But none like Seville’s was, a bird escaped from Allah’s with resolving this. They just laugh and compare the whole

garden for an evening’s sojourn on earth. Those eyes, that matter to something they saw among the Romans, and then

mouth.. . .” they go back to their dances and schemes for a hundred years

“And he ended that night driving the donkeys of his hence. Boukephos is the only one with his feet in this cen-

conquerors. Ah, well, perhaps not.” Ibrahim frowned. “But tury.” you still haven’t answered my question.”

The other vampire idly stirred his drink with a long, thin

Yusuf regarded his friend for a long moment. ILYou truly finger. “And are YOU SO anxious to accept the Greek‘s ruling, just for the sake of having matters over and done with?There’s

wish to know? Very well, then. I believe this inaction on the part ofour elders to be deliberate. They are testingus, Ibrahim, more to YOU than that, my friend.” He tookhis finger from the drink and sucked on it blissfully for a moment, then returned

looking to see who among us will seize the moment. They want to see who is worthy of survival. n o s e who fail will be culled, to his idle stirring.

like stallions incapable of speed when the wolf draws near.” The Moor shrugged eloquently. “What else is there? Discover what the graybeards would have of us do, the

“Or perhaps,” Ibrahim said softly, “they wish to see which

dance their steps to the best of our abilities. To sleep, act is otherwise it not? I just is to wish invite an the end longest to this bickering between we “chil- dren.” By the dozens we claw each

There was silence for a long moment. Yusuf put his goblet on the polished

wood of the tabletop and stood.

“Perhaps,” he said. “I had not

others’eyes out, and for nothing\! All our plans will be for naught as soon

“You hadn’t?’’ Ibrahim quirked an

as Boukephos - or one of the other withered blossoms masquerading as our elders - deigns to tell us what to do.”

“And what,” said the seated man, lean- ing forward with a terrible light in his eyes, “if you could change that?”

alone with your poems too long, could I do?”

“Make the decision for them. Unify the younger ones under your banner. Present Boukephos, when he finishes his sojourn, with a deed already done. And if the old ones care so little for our al-Andalus as to ignore its disposition, then you have n from them.”

f us might eventually prove a threat.”

Yusuf blushed - a very human action - to which Ibrahim only laughed. “Oh, don’t be so serious, little courtier. I can see now what you intended - that I should work to unify our

Ibrahim snorted in disbelief. “You’ve bee

weed, you would be there, my humble vizier, the

hundred years we have spent as friends - all of al-Andalus

“But to act would be to usurp their privilege\!” ‘lor perhaps they have

would not tempt me to betray that\!”

left this opportunity available, to see who will be so bold as to seize it,” Yusuf said.

“It

be.” The Moor turned back to the looking at the distant silhouette of a ship making for the African shore. “It could well be. But,” and he turned once again, “why do you tell me this, old friend? We’re of an age in the blood. Why pass the cup on to me, instead of taking it for yourself?”

“Probably for the best then, poet,” the tall Moor said as he turnedback the sea, ‘(for 1 don’t think that any ofus will have al-Andalus to offer you.,l A chill breeze whistled in off the water, and far below spray danced at the top of the waves. “An interesting effort, yusuf, but you had subtlety a hundred years ago.

old.,\* “As are you, Ibrahim. A hundred years ago you’d have

Yusuf shrugged. “Would YOU believe that it is because you’re better suited for it? I miss al-Mutamid’s gardens and musics, the poets he’d invite to read to us - that was my age, Ibrahim. I’m not a soldier or a king, I’m a courtier from a court long gone.”

killed me on the mere suspicion.” Yusuf picked up his goblet and contemplated the workmanship. “Perhaps it is for the best.” so, yusuf, Ibrahim when drummed do you his think fingers Boukephos on the railing. will

“Perhaps it is.

IS SANGUINIS 1

One does not necessarily control a kingdom by control- ling a king. After all, if the king has an advisor whose word he trusts and whose advice he follows, control of the advisor grants influence over his liege. And if that advisor has a mistress, well, then controlling that mistress grants power over the advisor, and surely a doxy is easier to subvert than a powerful minister or a king. So, the Lasombra reason, why struggle to command a king when the same results can be obtained with much less effort and fuss?

For the Lasombra don’t wish to control kings per se, or even kingdoms. They wish to control for its own sake, and to do so efficiently. To a Magister, the flawless exercise of power is all, and an all-consuming passion it is. While most Lasombra choose to play upon the stage of state - it is, after all, where the stakes of the game are highest - others prefer to duel on points ecclesiastical, or to tame beasts and horses. The details are, in the abstract, unimportant. What matters in the end is the imposition of Lasombra will and control, and the demon- stration that both are ineluctably superior to anything others might contrive for themselves.

The epithet by which others know the Lasombra is Magisters, the Latin term for either teacher or master. The Lasombra themselves refuse to comment on which interpreta- tion they prefer, though there is no doubt in the minds of other Cainites. DEMOGRAPHICS

The Romans called the ring of lands around the Mediter- ranean the Orbis Terrarum. Here is where the empire’s secret masters may be found, even to the present night. With the exception of Egypt, the entire region is encircled by lands the Lasombra call home. While they are more common in Italy and the Iberian peninsula, there is no shortage of Lasombra among the Crusader kingdoms or in France. North Africa is

more of a haven to the Lasombra than to many clans, but the religious asceticism of the Almoravids of the desert is always the most welcoming.

Northern Europe is relatively free of Lasombra, save in great cities and strongholds of the Church. Normandy holds few Lasombra, but Paris and Cluny have both known their share. Scandinavia is free of the clan’s shadowy touch, though some Lasombra have been known to spend a year or three “vacationing” in new-born Kflbnhavn to revel in the long nights that northern winter brings.

England has perhaps more than its share of Lasombra, particularly near the Channel. With the hostilities between Plantagenet and Capet, there has been more than enough movement back and forth between the sceptered island and the continent, and enough warfare and diplomacy to sate the greediest Magister’s palate. With that in mind, many Lasombra flock to London, Calais, the Cinque Ports and other locales where the powers that be congregate. Others find Canterbury a significant lure, and there have been mentions made of some sort of link between the clan and the untimely demise of Thomas Becket. Certainly a man who played the games of church and state with such consummate skill would have been of interest to the Lasombra.. .. THE RANKS

The Lasombra are almost overwhelmingly male in the elder generations. It is said that Lasombra himself will not Embrace a woman, for reasons he has never elucidated, and so it falls to his childer, and their childer in turn, to produce Magistrae as well as Magistri.

The Lasombra look for three things in their childer. The first, and most important, is excellence. They search for the very best, whether in the council chamber or the cloister. However, as very few peasants have the chance to demonstrate even their most sterling qualities in a place where a Lasombra is likely to notice, the second criterion for the Magisters is nobility. Obviously, there is some disagreement over what

constitutes nobility; is it breeding, bearing, mien, wealth? When in doubt, however, the Lasombra tend to test the oldest Cainite axiom: Blood will tell.

The third qualification for consideration is the telling one, however: ambition. Talents without the will to put them to use are worthless. Noble breeding and the allegiance of thousands are useless without the desire to rule more. Diplo- matic brilliance without the desire to use it to seize advantage is a waste. This, at least, is the Lasombra position on the matter. And so, the ranks of the Lasombra are filled with priests who would be Popes and counselors who steer the fates of nations. Noble bastards and unmarriageable daughters, driven by resentment of legitimate brothers who have stolen their inheritances, make perfect fodder for the Lasombra. So do second and third sons, raised to noble expectations with paupers’ purses, and able men of undistinguished lineage, who find their ambitions to be greater than any reasonable expec- tations. I\[TALm

The estimable Boukephos claims that the Lasombra came to Italy with Eneas’ crew, abandoning the supposedly idyllic Carthage. Such a romantic origin would certainly help ex-

plain Lasombra-heavy Rome’s antipathy toward Carthage. However, factual evidence to support the notion is lacking - other than the elder’s word, of course.

What is indisputable, however, is that the Lasombra have been in Italy since time immemorial. Their presence in Repub- lican and Imperial Rome has been carefully documented, and even in the Mother of Cities’ darkest hour they did not abandon her completely. While the year A.D. 69 saw the beginning of the exodus of the Magistri from Rome to her colonies, a core group of Lasombra elders and their loyal childer remained in the city through thick and thin. Even the sack of Rome in 476 was not enough to drive them off; they stayed to rebuild with the Emperor Flavius Zen0 and the Church.

For the Church was the great magnet that attracted new Magisters to the city after centuries of long, slow decline. With clergy Embraced and the faithful ghouled, not to mention the stealthy growth of the Cainite heresy, there were more and more places for Lasombra in Rome. Most historians mark the Benedictine expansion that began in the late fifth century as the moment when the Lasombra intertwined their destiny inextricably with that of the Church; it was at this point that more and more land began to fall into the hands of the clergy as the secular power of the empire moved east.

To the Lasombra, Italy fairly bubbles with activity. In the north, debates over the nature of government and mastery are put to the test as empires invade, kingdoms tumble, opportu- nistic merchants rise and the free communes of the Lombard League join with the Pope against an emperor.

Northern Italy also offers the best opportunities for those rare Lasombra with mercantile ambition. The most powerful trading houses reside in the Italian city-states, and their reach extends from the Holy Land up to England. For some Magisters, the thrill of controlling a trade route is as visceral as manipu- lating the destiny of a kingdom might be to another; plus, working the merchantman's game allows the Lasombra to indulge in one of their great passions. THE $EA

There has always been a strong love of the sea inherent in the Lasombra character. This seafaring streak finds expression in the mercantile wars of the Italian city-states. Genoa, Pisa, Byzantine-backed Venice and others all took to the waves, defending (and seizing) trade rights by force of arms.

Many Lasombra dabble in these conflicts, though per- haps not for the reasons one would expect. While the Lasombra political interest in Italy is strong, Magisters are not behind the trade wars. Rather, they're in the middle of them- sailing with war galleys, leading raids and thoroughly enjoying the whole experience. In just this one instance, the spirit of the moment is more important than the political repercussions of later days, and even many of the most reserved Lasombra give in to abandon when the sea calls and the promise of spilled blood beckons.

In this one instance, and for this one reason, lapses in dedication to greater plans by Lasombra are sometimes for- viven.

Many Lasombra have taken to piracy, often preying on the ships backed by the Genoese, Ventrue and other groups. Such affairs are swept under the table by the Amici, who see the matter as an expression of healthy competition. SICILY

Nowhere is the shadow deeper in Europe than on the island of Sicily. Held by Moors and Genoese, invaded by Pisa and conquered by the Angevins, Sicily is where all the disparate strains of Lasombra are on equal footing. Any Magister can find his own kind here, and indeed, the island is the closest thing to a home the Lasombra have. Many Lasombra pirates base their operations here, and Syracuse sees a constant traffic of black-sailed ships under the moon. THE IF(ATHER A THE so

There is acity on the island of Sicily that Cicero defended from its rapacious governor centuries ago. Outside of that city is a castle, built by a long-dead Moorish engineer for an unliving master. The castle is, by all accounts, impregnable; as a reward for his pains, the architect was killed and his fleeing soul imprisoned so that he could never reveal the secrets of his construction to an enemy.

This is the castle of Lasombra himself. It has no name, though the local peasantry calls it Caste1 d’Ombro - the Castle of Shadow. There are many servants in the castle, but they never speak. To do so might wake Lasombrafrom his fitful slumbers and that would mean death.

For Lasombra spends most of his nights sleeping, wander- ing the Earth in dreams. He still awakens occasionally, sometimes to feed, sometimes merely to go where his wander- lust takes him. These sojourns can extend for years; while they last, the main gates of the castle remain open to await his return. Just because the gates are open does not mean that they are unguarded, though, and no uninvited guest has walked through the portal and survived. Indeed, no Cainite has even dared to attempt entrance in centuries.

Lasombra is not the only Cainite in residence, though. Generations of his childer, grand-childer and so on cluster under the Antediluvian’s roof. There they spend their nights politicking, debating, playing chess and otherwise whiling away the years awaiting Lasombra’s commands. Many of the oldest Lasombra dwell here, close to the heart of the clan’s power. Magisters newer to the blood flock around them, anxious to emulate the manners and intrigues of their betters. Even notorious wanderers like Boukephos occasionally so- journ to Sicily to pay their respects and indulge in the latest gossip among their brethren.

Amici Noctis

The Friends of the Night are those Lasombra decreed by acouncil of their peers as being worthy of setting policy for the rest of the clan - at least on matters that Lasombra himself takes no interest in. Membership among the Amici is an honor and a privilege, and the responsibilities that come with mem bership are taken very seriously indeed.

There are no limits on the number of Lasombra who can belong to the Friends at any given time; there is room for all those who have demonstrated their worthiness. However, gaining admission is neither quick nor easy. Prospective can- didates must be sponsored by a current member and observed by other Amici over a period of years. The would-be Amicus is judged by her ingenuity, capability, honor and most impor tantly, strength of will.

INDUCTION

Once a Lasombra (as, obviously, only Lasombra are ch- gible) has been deemed worthy of admission to the Amici, she is summarily abducted by her sponsor and certain other Friends who serve as witnesses. The candidate is then sealed m a room (usually below ground; great monasteries are often used for this purpose) that has been prepared so that no light may enter, and she is left there for a period of up to a fortnight. During that time, the Magistra is expected to come to terms with Darkness, both internal and external. There are no distractions in the sealed chamber, nothing save the Cainite and the dark,

Most times, the Amici pick their candidates well, and the new Friend of the Night comes forth with a better understand- ing of both the darkness and herself. Other times, mistakes have been made. Such errors are disposed of. Rapidly.

A new Amicus is informed of her few duties as a member of the Friends. These include, but are not limited to, settling matters of local policy in debate with other Amici, sitting on Courts of Blood and rendering judgment, enforcing dictates of the Amict and disciplining Lasombra who act contrary to the clan's best interests.

It must be noted that most meetings of the Amict are informal affairs; they take place after a midnight mass or at masque. Only in moments of crisis are all of the Friends summoned together and then, usually, just to hear Lasombra's

or Montano's will. These grave gatherings inevitably take place in the darkened halls of Castel d'Ombro. Regional gatherings of Amici are more common, particularly in al- Andalus. Still, there is no set schedule or format to these meetings unless a Court of Blood has been called. In that case, however, things become excruciatingly formal. THE COURTS OF BLOOD

A Lasombra is not truly a Friend of the Night until the first time he has sat in judgment on the worthiness of a fellow Magister to exist. It is the ultimate affirmation of one's own value in the clan when one's peers have willingly handed over

matters of life and death. Indeed, the matter is so exhilarating that most Lasombra voluntarily restrict themselves toonly two or three turns on a court per century. Those who take too many additional trips behind the bench are themselves watched carefully....

Most courts have three to five judges, though when the matter of an elder's possible Amaranth is brought up, as many as 13 Lasombra have sat in judgment. It matters not how long a Lasombra has been an Amicus; when a court is called (and they seem to simply coalesce when the time is right, often when a sufficient number of petitions have built up to remind the Amici of the need), all Amici are eligible to be judges. A Lasombra not 10 years under the shadow can be called to judge a Canite Embraced when Brutus wife complained of the sheeted dead walking the streets of Rome; an elder of 15 centuries' vintage heeds the word of a Magister 50 years undead. There are no exceptions.

Debate in the courts is open, and often the petitioner is privy to it. On rarer occasions, the defendant is brought in as well. The decisions of the court are always final, and any attempts to tamper with the process are dealt with harshly. THE BINDING NATURE OF THE VERDICT

All Lasombra, from the rankest neonate to the most august childe of Montano recognize the infallible and indis- putable nature of a decision made by a court. Whether or not they agree with it is another matter, but a decree issued by the Amici might as well be an 11th Commandment.

Perhaps the gravest damage done by a Court of Blood's damning verdict is not in the approval of the Amaranth but in the reasoning behind it. A Magister on the receiving end of an Amaranth approval has obviously incurred such wrath and disfavor among her fellows that they deem death the only amenable solution to the problem she presents. Rather than dispute it (as the court's word is law), some disaffected con- demned actually end their own unlives when they hear of the verdict rather than wait for the inevitable night-shrouded execution at the hands of their killers.

BEYOND THE FRIENDS

Most Lasombra will never join the Friends. Such Lasombra, while they have recourse to the Courts of Blood, have no voice in matters decided by the Amici. When a decision comes down from the Friends, a "lesser" Lasombra has two choices: Obey or risk the wrath of the Friends. Most choose to obey.

Young Lasombra often seek to join the Amici and, as such, are usually punctual with their compliance to the wishes of their betters. Older Magisters, particularly those who have seen a few centuries and have no prospects of elevation, are less willing to submit to the Friends' will. Some few of these have gone so far as to plot rebellion, though no real threat has ever emerged from these cabals of the disaffected.

15

I

\_\_ -. . t When Lasombra is in residence and awake, he is the There are many members ofAmici Noctis in the castle. but undisputed master of his castle. Even in his sleep, he often makes his presence known to his guests and servants. Shadowy figures with Lasombra’s features patrol the halls; beasts made entirely of blackness squat on the battlements to stand silent guard. However, when Lasombra wanders or slips into deeper slumber, it is Montano who reigns in his stead. Montano is the only childe to whom Lasombra speaks regularly, discussing future nights, the war with the Germans encroaching on the north of Italy, and other such inconsequentialities. In his sire’s absence, Montano is the sovereign of the Castle of Shadow. His word is law, and he administers honorable and fair justice to his siblings, nieces, childer and less identifiable blood relations. For this fairness, of course, he is hated by most, but respected and feared by all. In the centuries of Caste1 d’Ombro’s existence, not one attempt has been made to diablerize either

Montano rarely stirs from the castle these nights, content to stare over the ocean from the towers of his sire’s manor. As of late he has been increasingly concerned with the matter of the Reconquista, as both Moorish and Christian Lasombra have petitioned him for a ruling as to which side of the conflict

Montano has decreed that any affairs of the Courts of Blood are to be resolved off of the island of Sicily. He has also sworn to punish any transgressors personally, a threat that carries enough weight to keep violations of his decree to a minimum.

1 The Reconquista is probably the most important issue before the clan today, even more so than the perpetually unstable disposition of Italy. In Italy, the enemy is plain to see: the Germans and their Ventrue backers. Internecine squabbles mean nothing when the chance to demonstrate superiority over the self-styled Patricians arises. When the Hohenstaufens come calling, there is no question of the appropriate Lasombra ) the sleeping Lasombra or his favorite childe.

response.

However, things become a trifle more difficult when there ’ are Lasombra on both sides of the issue. And so, from Granada to the heart of the Castle of Shadow, the debate rages: Who do we support? Almohad and other Moorish Lasombra call for a I

halt to the Reconquista, while the scions of the Church demand that the Saracens be expelled from Europe. (Removing them from the Holy Land is, at this point, too much to hope for.)

Lasombra himself has evinced not a whit of interest on this issue. When pressed by his childer, he likens the situation to the wars of Pompey, or perhaps Alexander’s “Battle of Rats,” and assures the petitioner that the worthier side will inevitably reveal itself. Montan0 is not much better, admit- ting a preference for the taifas but softened enough by centuries among the Romans to see merit in the Spaniards as well.

Among the newer generations, though, the battle for Iberia is a much more personal thing. As many of these Lasombra have been taken from the ranks of the noble families leading the war, the Reconquista matters in a way that abstract manipulation never could. It is their family estates and tombs, their heritage and wealth, that are being contested by armies and, as such, they often come to blows on the issue. A great many ride forth with the armies whose religion they share; the most zealous have taken to ghouling troops regardless of personal or clan consequence.

The situation has gotten so bad that the Amici Noctis have declared a unilateral ban on petitions based on one’s political preference in the matter of Iberia. While most of those Cainites involved in the war are too young - or too feckless - to belong to the Friends of the Night, the debate among even the Amici is heated. Debate, however, is what it remains among the friends. Even those of the Amici who have friends, family or lands in the contested kingdoms know that in the end, this, too, will be another footnote in history. What matters less than how al-Andalus is governed is by what methods that governance is enforced, by whom and how skillfully. THE KNIGHT’S VIGIL

Perhaps the most famous Christian hero of the Reconquista is Rodrigo Diaz de Bivar, also known as El Cid. While popular vampiric rumor painted de Bivar as a Cainite, or at least as a ghoul, there was no evidence that the captain was ever anything more than human (though a superb example of the sgecies).

De Bivar’s bones lie, untroubled, in the Cathedral at Burgos, across the peninsula from his beloved Valencia. The cathedral itself sits at one of the more important stops on the Pilgrim’s Road to Santiago, and more than one Lasombra has journeyed there.

It has become something of a ritual of passage among young Christian Lasombra of Spanish heritage to spend a night in silent vigil before the tomb of El Cid. As there is a strong undercurrent of faith that permeates the very floors of the Burgos Cathedral, this task is more difficult than one might imagine. To win the adulation of his peers and the (imagined) blessing of the departedde Bivar, the Magister must endure the unceasing pressure of faith instilled by all of the pilgrims and holy men who have passed some time in the cathedral, all without uttering a single sound. Furthermore, he must remain at the bones of the hero until sunrise and do so in perfect solitude. This puts the onus of honesty upon the vampiric squire, though lying about one’s vigil comes with disastrous consequences. The members of Amici Noctis always seem to know, somehow, when a postulant has not spent the entire night in the cathedral, failed in his pledge of silence, or worst of all, profaned the hero’s bones with the drinking of blood. They take appropriate action to punish such transgressions. O n the other hand, those who admit failure, while duly noted as weak-willed, are not usually punished.

The true hazard of the vigil, apart from the failure of will, comes from Moorish Lasombra who see the practice as insult- ing. Should a Magister of Islamic blood hear of a vigil in progress, he may attempt to disrupt it by any means necessary. By tradition, a Lasombra keeping vigil by El Cid’s grave is permitted to defend himself, and many epic duels between Cainites have been fought with only the bones of El Cid to witness them.

There are very few dwellings that Lasombra consider to be suitable for long-term occupation. While traveling, of course, they make do, but when it comes time to retum home, Lasombra are very selective about their circumstances.

There is asignificant minority among the Magisters in the holy orders. These vampires dwell within fortress-like monas- teries and abbeys, often in monastic asceticism. However, ascetic does not mean foolish - these monasteries and nun- neries are as grim as prisons and twice as defensible. Thick, brooding walls and heavy gates, not to mention full comple- ments of truly faithful clergy and servants, serve as more than adequate protection. As the concentration of faith in such defenses provides a potentially fatal threat to the guarded Lasombra as well, these Magisters must burrow themselves into the heart of their labyrinthine homes. A delicate balance must be maintained between piety and avoidance of the truly pious, otherwise the Lasombra may find himself destroyed by his own protections.

Some holy ground contains such a concentration of faith that it causes agony for a Cainite to stand upon it. Such places are well known among Caine’s children and are avoided for that reason. Not surprisingly, certain Lasombra have made a practice of desecrating such sites and then usurping them, trusting residual faith and long-standing reputations to keep intruders out. I a and - o u other, n Monasteries d complexes less identifiable such of monks’ as this chambers. cells, also squat confessionals, If the atop resident massive storerooms, Lasombra under-

are at all involved with thecainite heresy, it is in these tunnels that the devotees of this deviant faith meet, far from light and life. Here is also where less savory members of the clergy come for their illicit trysts, and where recalcitrant initiates are “disciplined.” What other uses these chambers see can only be

WBELLUS SANCarINIS 1

imagined, though innumerable stories have been whispered of torture and murder, even those of prisoners locked away and forgotten until their very bones crumbled to dust.

There is usually some form of subterranean path out of the monastery that can be reached through the underground complex. Many monasteries resemble fortresses in other ways as well, having large supplies of food secreted away, indepen- dent water sources and smithies that can easily be turned to armory work.

O n a less martial note, monasteries also house vast stores of knowledge in the form of books and scrolls. These manu- scripts, both ancient and modem, are a powerful resource, and may well be one of the reasons the Lasombraoriginally moved into the Church. After all, a scroll rescued from the wreck of one of the Greek colonies in Asia Minor just might contain information about a Cainite who dwelt there -or at the very least, insight into her background and deeds. Any of these might be key in understanding (or eradicating) the Cainite in question; it is a truism among the Magisters that one can never have too much information on an opponent.

Access to Lasombra-held libraries is tightly restricted as the Magisters have no wish to share their treasures with competitors. It is a signal honor for a non-Lasombra to be granted access to one of the Magisters’ libraries. Furthermore, any vampire to whom this gift is granted incurs a weighty debt to the Lasombra that will undoubtedly someday be called upon. As an added matter, any and all visitors are chaperoned, usually by both Cainite and mortal guardians to make sure no materials go out on unauthorized, extended loans.

Part and parcel with libraries, however, are librarians - monks who are literate. With literacy at a premium outside of monastery walls, the advantage inherent in potential control of the largest demographic of those who can read is incalcu- lable. (Consider this: The laws of the land are, of course, written. The only ones who know what they actually say are those who can read. Literacy by no means has honesty as a prerequisite. The rest is left as an exercise for the student.)

It is well known that Lasombra Cainites cannot see their own reflections in a mirror. Some stories say that the clan was punished thus by Caine for some unknown transgression, others claim that the Devil took their reflections when they dared to call upon darkness greater than his own. (The latter explanation, while popular, is technically heresy and will greatly upset any Lasombra with religious leanings who hears it.) The theories are numberless, but there is no explanation that fits the facts.

Regardless of cause, no Lasombra owns a reflection. Once Embraced, a Lasombra’s face cannot be seen in a mirror, a pool of water, a puddle of quicksilver or any other reflective surface. As a result, certain other Cainites have taken to placing mirrors strategically in havens and palaces, for the sake of identifying any Magisters present. However, the Lasombra have taken advantage of this quirk as well (see below).

Without the benefits of reflections, Lasombra tend to obsess about their appearances. Many will have manservants or ghouls whose sole function is to dress and groom them and state repeatedly how superb they look. The position of “body ghoul” to a Lasombra is one calling for muchdiscretion, as the ghoul is the Magister’s almost constant companion. A few Magisters, perhaps focused a tad too thoroughly on their images, pay Tzimisce vampires outrageous sums to alter the features of their body ghouls to mirror their own. The body ghoul then becomes a walking, talking, faux-mirror for the vampire, fussed and fidgeted over to a disturbing degree.

Even the most sensible Lasombra, however, are partial to seeing their own image, and most sit for at least one portrait every year. This practice is most common among Magisters between one and three centuries of age, who often fill entire galleries with portraits of their own image. More than one visitor has remarked upon the unnerving sensation of walking corridors lined entirely with variations upon the same face and features.

Of course, woe betide any mortal painter who is so foolish as to render a portrait of a young Magister that is less than flattering. While many of the clan’s more practical elder members appreciate an accurate recording of their appear- ance, younger ones just coming to grips with the loss of their reflections often have somewhat.. .idealized memories of what they actually look like. When a portrait fails to live up to their euphemistic expectations, these young Magisters can get upset - with unfortunate consequences for the artist.

Islamic Lasombra scrupulously avoid this sort of portrai- ture and, indeed, most forms of representative art.

My Dearest Lucita:

Beloved childe, you were right about the level of degradation to which Amicus Noster Omar has sunk. he attended the revel last evening and was permit- ted, in accordance with his station, one attendant. Said manservant was a ghoul, and indeed we ex- pected no less. After all, Omar was not required to provide us with refreshment, as our goodly host had prepared a feast indeed. I wish you had been with us to share it. No, it was the visage of this attendant that causes dismay in me to this very hour and which can even replace the image of your loveliness before my

eyes.

Vanity, childe he has fallen to that deadly sin and refuses even to own his transgression in the confessional.

For, as you undoubtedly know by now, the ghoul wore Omar's own face. he boasted - the fool boasted -as to how much he'd paid a Bulgar Tzimisce to do the work for him. The ghoul was even dressed in the same raiment, down to jewelry and blade.

Omar positively cackled about the entire un- seemly display and showed off his toy in obvious hopes of soliciting compliments on its appearance. The rest of those assembled, to their credit, maintained their composure until Omar left. As all of those remaining were of the Amici, I took that opportunity to bring forward your petition, so superbly phrased.

And so, my darling Lucita, my shining light, I have the pleasure of informing you that your petition has been granted, with one condition.

You may, at your leisure, hunt down Omar y Sion Cedeño and commit Amaranth upon him. he will not be informed of this decision by the Amici, and we expect your hunt will be swift. however, ere you lay talon or blade on Cedeño, you must first destroy the ghoul with his face, and in such a manner that Omar understands the message perfectly. You may, of course, do with the corpse as you wish afterwards, but first you must lay utter ruin to that mockery of a face. Our reflections have been taken from us for a reason and to attempt to recapture them is to thwart God's will. You will be the instrument of holy vengeance for that presumption, beloved childe.

My faith in you, as is my faith in all things, is absolute. I look forward to hearing successful tidings of your hunt, my darling daughter.

Your Loving Father Ambrosio Luis Monçada

MIRRORS

Lasombra, of course, cannot be seen in mirrors. On the other hand, this enables the Magisters to make certain unique defensive arrangements to their havens. Any Lasombra dwell- ing has approximately a coinflip's chance of being positively bespangled in silvered glass, with the front vestibule looking like a veritable hall of mirrors.

The advantage of this arrangement is purely strategic. While the Lasombra lord of the manor has no reflection, the same can't be said of his visitors-friendly or otherwise. Indeed, any Lasombra worth his salt will have arranged his mirrors so that he has reflective lines of sight all through his haven. An intruder to a Lasombra haven, thus, has all of his actions observed from the instant he steps through the door until such time as the master of the house decides how to dispose of him.

Of course, this tactical consideration has been completely misunderstood by members of the other clans. Instead of pondering just why the Lasombra, sans reflection, insist on bedecking their homes with mirrors, the members of the other clans just mutter about Lasombra vanity and an unseemly idolatry. This misunderstanding serves the clan's purposes even as it slanders its reputation, a tradeoff which the prideful Magisters will accept without taking bloody offense - for

now.

HOUSES, MANORS AND CASTLES

Much of European castle-building technique was taken from firsthand experience with Islamic fortifications in the Holy Land. The Lasombra, with tacticians and observers on both sides of the line (that line was never drawn as clearly among mortals as some depressingly literal propagandists and Ventrue would like it to have been), were in perfect position to take advantage of this information before anyone else.

Naturally, they did so.

And so, castles in regions where Lasombra hold sway often have all of the advances Islamic science can offer: curved towers to reduce the effects of battering rams, concentric constructions with lines of inner defense, projecting towers that flank exposed walls and all of the other latest innovations for defense and murder. While it is unlikely that a Lasombra owns such a castle, it is probable that any Magister dabbling in politics will make certain that one is constructed near his haven. Truth be told, however, very few mortal lords need much manipulating to see to their own defenses. It's just that the Lasombra prefer those defenses to be convenient.

VIAE

It is not surprising that a clan that ties itself to the Church has many members who walk the Road of Heaven. Indeed, Via Caeli is by far the most popular Road among the Magisters,

LIBELLUS SANGUINIS 1

20

particularly those of devout Catholic faith (in life or death). As the stresses of unliving existence mount, however, this Road sometimes becomes harder and harder to follow, at least in its original form. As a result, there have been any number of “branchings” from the Road of Heaven. Some of these side paths seem to have great potential; others appear to be dead ends. That is not to say, however, that all Lasombra seek Heaven. Those of Moorish or Berber origin generally start on the Road of Chivalry, though a somewhat modified version thereof, to bring the Road in line with Islamic principles of honor and faith. Other Lasombra, having fallen off the Road of Heaven, take up the Road of Humanity, at least tempo- rarily. Such “wayward” Cainites often drift from Via to Via, trying on philosophies and discarding them with equal rapid- ity.

The Lasombra are remarkable among the clans for the sheer number of their ranks who honestly, devotedly believe in the teachings of the Church. The Magisters have a higher proportion of Cainites with True Faith than any other clan, and many of those Lasombra who serve in the Church have not let their unliving state alter their belief.

This would seem a paradox, and for many, the conun- drum remains insoluble. A good many Magisters fall away from faith, embracing the secular exclusively. After all, even the most devout sometimes have trouble reconciling the acts of a vampire with the demands of their Savior. These Cainites rarely stay on one Via and often find themselves bouncing fromVia Caeli to Via Humanitatis, and then, perhaps, further on. Such Cainites are sometimes prone to fits of self-loathing over their perceived failures, and at such times, they are watched carefully by their fellow clan members. More than one, in a haze of religious depression, has attempted to go to Church authorities to confess the horror of his existence. Fortunately, there is usually enough advance warning for this type of maneuver to be subverted, with the receiving confessor being a member of the Cainite heresy, or otherwise disinclined to report what he has been told.

On the other hand, there are many Catholic Lasombra who cling to their faith after death, and the rituals of the Church are still vital to these clan members. Outsiders see the adoption of a church-like structure by the Magisters as mock- ery, but in truth, it is a gesture of reverence for many. Furthermore, many Lasombra bishops, archbishops and other clergy held those positions in life. Unfortunately, others see their new state as a chance to reject the trappings of the Church in their entirety. Such Lasombra are responsible for the poor reputation Magister religious practices have among others; they are the ones who hold the rites and rituals up for derision by imitating or twisting them.

Confession, in particular, is one of the ritual holdovers from life that is held in high esteem. This is not, as one might expect, done for the sake of information gathering or black- mail. Rather, there is a genuine respect for the notions of sin, penance and absolution with which few dare meddle. Further- more, just as in mortal society, there are “fashionable” confessors and “unfashionable” ones, and being invited to confession at the haven of a notable Magister is both an honor and a privilege.

Then there are those Lasombra who come from the ranks of the clergy - a fair number, if rumor is to be believed. While some of these drop from the ranks of the faithful and a great many more were of a secular mind to begin with, there remain those who took their mission seriously in life and continue to do so in death. These Magister clerics tend to fall into two categories.

Most associate themselves with the so-called Cainite heresy, which subverts the notion of transubstantiation with a Lollard-like logic, offering the body and blood of Cainites for communion. This is a relatively easy path to follow, heretical though it may be. While not a true version of the faith, it offers enough familiar rites and rituals to be comforting, and the danger of being discovered or surprised by a holy man is minimal.

Some, however, take the harder road. They continue in practice and observance, even to the point of maintaining their positions in the actual Church as long as they can. These Lasombra are not only religious, they are actively faithful - and that makes all the difference to them. Mind you, such vampires do not have easy consciences, but they do have

I callings that they cannot deny. In the words of Archbishop Monqada of Madrid, “I believe, with a perfect faith, in the Church and in all of its teachings. By those teachings, I am damned; this, too, I believe. Yet if my damnation be the price of others’ salvation, I shall accept it even as Our Lord accepted his suffering as the price for the salvation of mankind.” ) tunity Lasombra nights As debating to one take are might fond this similar expect, of notion arguing issues. Monqada up theology, Novice in ecclesiastic has though, Magisters never had debate. and are the will warned oppor- Many spend

with the apocryphal tale of the Lasombra who were so thor- ) oughly absorbed by their debate on the nature of Cainite damnation that they were taken by surprise by the rising sun and found the opportunity to test their theories immediately. THE ANGELLS ATER

Archbishop Monqada’s attitude is one that is shared by other Lasombra, but there are some who take his point a trifle )

too literally. Seeking redemption by plumbing the depths of damnation, or possibly seeing further sin as a form of self. flagellation, they delve deep into depravity. Not content with simply mocking Church rites, these walkers on the road of damnation have begun to create their own rituals involving sacrifice, baths of blood, the sharing of blood from chalices and other acts of foulness.

Decried as heretics by thdse who fear the wrath of the Church, these Satanic Lasombra practice a deviant path of the Via Diabolis (which actually shares a great deal with the Via Caeli, interpreting the Cainite as the minion of the Devil instead of God). Whereas most Dark Medieval conceptions of infernalism are solitary pursuits, the angellis ater, or black angels, work with unprecedented cooperation in the interests of serving their unholy lord. Many angellis ater organize them- selves in covens of five to 13 members. These covens actively encourage infernalism and blasphemy, and it is not unknown for particularly efficient angellis to turn entire villages to Satan’s bidding through subtle coercion and blatant, sacrile- gious displays of vampiric power. Angellis ater are arguably the most vocal proselytizers of the Lasombra, entreatying more potential converts than the Church itself.

Obtenebration is the ultimate manifestation of Satan’s will on Earth through the vessel of the Cainite, according to the doctrine of the angellis. The shadows conjured through its practice are not woe-begotten “inner darkness,” as so many Lasombra believe (to the ridicule of many angellis), but rather, black shades brought forth from Hell itself. Other Cainite Disciplines are extensions of Lucifer’s blessing by the same token. Thus, the vampire exists solely to spread the Devil’s work in the physical world.

And this they do with abandon. The ungellis uter are a stain on the countenances of other Lasombra, actively cor- rupting the dogma of the Catholic Church into a twisted, black parody of grandiose scale. OTHER FAITHS

Few, if any, Islamic or Jewish clergy have taken the opportunity to join the Lasombra. If nothing else, the faiths dietary strictures (see below) make the idea of becoming a vampire problematic.

This has not prevented followers of these faiths from becoming Lasombra, though the number of Jews Embraced into the clan has been tiny thus far, even in comparison to the number of Muslims. The exclusion of Jews from most social and political discourse in the Dark Medieval world makes them unattractive candidates for Lasombra Embrace. Those few Jews who are brought under the shadow are often those connected financially to local power structures, though cer- tain Lasombra elders have a soft spot for the occasional false Messiahs who rise from the ranks of Europe’s Jewry.

Elders of the clan want perspectives from both sides of the Reconquista, as they have not yet decided which side to support. North African and Moorish Lasombra tend to Em- brace from among their own, as Christian Lasombra do the same. This regrettable parochialism has led to more than a bit of intra-clan squabbling as to what the “true” direction of the Lasombra is to be; however, the example of Montan0 is usually sufficient to quiet even the most rabid advocate of a purely Christian - or EuroDean - clan. THE EMBMCE

Lasombra do not bring newcomers into the clan ran- domly, hastily or clumsily. They study their potential childer carefully, often for years at a time. Many Lasombra deliber- ately maneuver hardships into the paths of those they would recruit to gauge their reactions and test their mettle. Others insert themselves into would-be childer’s lives so as to better gain an estimation of their capabilities and will.

However, there is one constant in all Lasombra Embraces. In all cases, the sire-to-be must ask the one she would grant the Kiss if he truly desires it. To Embrace without permission, freely granted, is the worst offense a Lasombra can commit. In those cases when the Embrace is given involuntarily, unless the circumstances are extenuating to an unbelievable degree, the misguided sire is routinely punished. Torpor is the least one can expect in this situation; most offenders of this ilk are summarily destroyed. The wrongly created Cainite is some- times destroyed; other times he is given the choice he was denied before. Such Lasombra rarely rise to join the ranks of Amici Noctis. Their origins are seen as tainted, and as such, they themselves are seen as not quite being up to standard. Not surprisingly, involuntary Lasombra resent this treatment and tend to keep to themselves. Indeed, many have an adversarial attitude toward the more mainstream members of the clan, adopting an “us-against+them” pose that masks some very real hostility.

The reasoning for this seemingly odd policy has its origins in the Lasombra’s estimation of themselves. After all, the Magisters view themselves as the creme de la creme of the vampiric population, taking only the noblest and most capable mortals to swell their ranks. A young Lasombra should not have to be coerced. Lasombra heritage should not be forced on anyone - it must be offered as a precious gift. The potential Lasombrashould be made aware ofwhat he is being offered and what an honor it is and then allowed to choose freely.

If the candidate chooses to accept, the Embrace occurs without further delay. If the candidate refuses, he is given one night to reconsider his decision and warned not to discuss the matter. It goes without saying that during that time, he will be under surveillance, and should he prove himself indiscreet, he is considered to have rejected the offer. What follows is brief and bloody but not unpredictable.

If at the end of the 24 hours, the candidate has proved his discretion and still refuses, he is usually sorrowfully killed. Very few have refused the Embrace and been permitted to live, if the thwarted sire has tremendous respect for his victim’s nobility

\-\~ -

\~ or talents. However, the rumors about El Cid notwithstand- ing, no one is ever offered a second chance at immortality - at least not by the Lasombra.

It has been said that murder, like love, should have no witnesses. Among the Lasombra, however, this is most em- phatically not the case. In cases of the younger generation devouring the elder, the more witnesses to the deed, the better -within certain parameters, of course.

To prevent excessive Amaranth and, more importantly, to keep clan members from wasting too much energy worrying about which of their progeny had patricidal intentions, in recent centuries the Lasombra have formalized a practice more or less in effect since Roman times, if not before. The idea behind this codification of Amaranth is as old as the concept of parents and children: By controlling the process by which a childe commits Amaranth, you control the frequency of Amaranth as well. There’s more to the matter than that, of course, but that simple principle lies at the heart of the Courts of Blood and saves the Lasombra from the internecine strife that afflicts so many other clans. THE PROCESS

Any Lasombra may petition for permission to commit Amaranth. It is simply a matter of giving a member of Amici Noctis a written request for the Friends of the Night’s sanction for the deed. Ideally, the petition should also contain the reasons that Amaranth is necessary, when there are equally permanent but less radical options available. Evidence of gross misconduct, incompetence, derangement and so on are all considered suitable additions to a petition for Amaranth. On occasion, an accuser is called before the court to add substance to the weight of her petition, but if sufficient evidence is not presented properly, trial never reaches this stage.

The Courts of Blood themselves meet irregularly, usually when a crowd of Amici have gathered and one or more has been presented with a petition recently. There is no statute of limitations on this process. Some verdicts have been handed down in hours, others in decades. More than once a young ) Lasombra who has pestered Amici for swift resolution has found that resolution not at all to his liking. In this, the courts are teaching tools, imbuing those new to the blood with patience. (And if a Lasombra cannot control himself to wait for the answer to the question he has asked, that demonstrates quite well that the petitioner most clearly does not deserve to have his request granted.) There is method to the agenda of ) find the Courts their dealings of Blood, with and the any courts who fail to to be see less it than will most pleasant.

likely

On average, one petition in ten is granted. However, )

there are always terms and conditions set upon court-sanc- tioned hunts. These range from a demand that the hunter inform the prey of his intention, to barring the use of Disci- f 1 plines in the hunt, to a mandate LIBELLUS SANGUINIS 1 for the slaughter all of a

)IC

target’s ghouls before moving in for the kill. There is only one condition that remains the same from hunt to hunt, though. No matter what, the end of the chase must be witnessed. The Amaranth cannot be performed in solitude. At least one Magister who sat on the sanctioning court must be present to witness the act of diablerie, to verify that all conditions have been met and that the act of Amaranth is completed. Should all of the conditions not be met, the courts’ representative will prevent Amaranth from taking place. One does not ask permission and then flout the will that grants it.

Of course, most Amaranth hunts are unsuccessful. While youthful strength of purpose can take a Cainite far, the powers of age are not so easy to defeat. Thus, wiser petitioners wait years or even decades before beginning their hunt. Lasombra who take too direct an approach almost always fail.

Thus, the Lasombra cull their own ranks, neatly and with discipline. Overly greedy childer are spotted early and ad- dressed; at the same time, those young vampires with potential can be spotted easily in the petition process. And, if an elder falls to an ambitious and properly respectful youngster, so much the better for the clan. Obviously, the elder did not deserve his position; it is far better that his strength flow to one with greater capabilities.

Those who commit Amaranth without court sanction are hunted down and destroyed as quickly as possible, with news of their fate spread far and wide. This is the stick to the courts’ carrot. The combination works most effectively. NOBLESSE OBLIGE

Lasombra have no equals among the Cainites. Ask any Lasombra and he’ll gladly tell you so. This is not to say that Lasombra don’t have respect for Cainites of other clans; they don’t often see those others as equals. Naturally, other vam- pires notice (and do not appreciate) this condescension, but unfortunately, the Lasombra hold a position of strength. With arguably the strongest Church ties of any clan, a deep-rooted presence in the corridors of power and a loyal contingent of Cainites on the Saracen side of the Crusades, the Lasombra are entrenched so thoroughly that taking offense at Magister attitude is not always a healthy thing to do.

Still, if Lasombra were to deal only with Lasombra, it would be a dull world indeed for them. The Magisters do have dealings - many of them even friendly - with the other clans. It’s just that the Lasombra prefer those dealings to be, universally, on Lasombra terms. ASSAMITE

The Lasombra share a unique bond with the assassins; they are the only two clans in which Muslims make up even a sizable percentage of the ranks. While the Assamites are strong in the Levant, as compared to the Lasombra concentra- tion in the lands of the Almohad Empire, the helpful presence of other areas of Cainite influence (particularly the infidel

given Setites in Egypt) provides for a comfortable buffer between the

endeavor; there’s just one field of study after another. two groups. This allows them to respect one another’s faith

The Lasombra find this maddening. Regardless of whether a without encouraging the messy details of Almohad decadence

Magister is trying to tame a horse, maneuver the destiny of a in Iberia or Alamut’s split with mainstream Islam to cause any

kingdom or reduce a single soul to ruin, there is always a sort of schism. Islamic Lasombra have reasonably friendly

moment a Lasombra can point to at which there is success or relations with the Assamites and have even cooperated with

failure. Not having that moment of closure drives Lasombra them on several ventures aimed at reducing the Setite strangle-

absolutely mad. hold on Egypt and the surrounding lands.

Ergo, Magisters cannot comprehend the Cappadocian Christian Lasombra, on the other hand, are perceived as

character in the slightest. Seeing as the Graverobbers have being the shadowy hand behind the Crusades and, as such,

little interest in politics and little use for the Church, except have the Saracens’ undying enmity. There is, of course,

as part of an empirical experiment on religion, the Lasombra enough truth to this rumor to make it difficult for Christian

do their best to ignore the Cappadocians. For the most part, Lasombra to deny it, and so when Assamites strike at Cainites

this makes both clans quite happy. in the Holy Land, Lasombra are often their first targets. Unconfirmed, but eminently believable, is the whispered news that Assamites have agreed to help sway the Lasombra to the defense of Islam in the matter of the Reconquista, primarily by assassinating proponents of Christian annex- ation within the clan. BRUIAH

FOLLOWERS OF SET

As one might expect, there is no love lost between the Serpents and the Magisters, though the antipathy is mostly on the Lasombra side. As the Setites predicate their actions on subverting the wills of others, it is not hard to understand why the Lasombra loathe them. There are Lasombra fingerprints all over the Crusader incursions into Egypt, while the Setites The Brujah control the beginning of the Road to Santiago

seemingly have set their sights on converting the Magisters, en while the Lasombra hold the rest of its length; this is perhaps

masse, to their viewpoint. the only thing these two clans can actively share. While the

The Setites have had just enough success in this endeavor Ventrue claim the successes of the Punic Wars as theirs and

to make the Magisters extremely wary. Not surprisingly, theirs alone, both the Brujah and the Lasombra know better.

Lasombra work hard to neutralize and destroy any Serpents The Rome of Publius Africanus Scipio was controlled from

they come across, particularly in sensitive locales such as the shadows, not the council room. For that truth, the Brujah Sicily. hate the Lasombra almost as much as they hate the Ventrue,

Furthermore, the brazenly pagan stance of the Serpents which actually concerns the Magisters a bit.

offends the devout among the Lasombra to no end. While the For now, the Brujah are in al-Andalus. The fledgling

other clans have mostly made some adaptation to the Church kingdom of Portugal is there, and it is in that kingdom that the

(or to the diametrically opposed Islam), the Setites’ debased Brujah have decided to make their new Carthage. While the

worship is an insult to all faithful Lasombra. Even if there were Lasombra don’t see the Brujah as much of a threat (numbers

no other reason for the Lasombra to hate the Serpents, for and resources both work against them), a policy of contain-

Cainites such as Archbishop Ambrosio Luis MonGada and his ment has been instituted. The Brujah can have Portugal if

ilk, the Setites’ faith in their “dark god” would be sufficient. they want it; through the royal confessor, the Lasombra have a port of entry any time they wish it. In the meantime, the

GANGREL Magisters have their own concerns. Let the Brujah try to

Formal Lasombra contact with the Animals is so infre- rebuild a city that’s been lost too many times; that way they’re

quent that it may be considered nonexistent. The Gangrel not disturbing anyone else.

haunt the wild places of the north and east; the Lasombra On the other hand, the Magisters make every effort to eradicate the few Brujah who ensconce themselves in the independent commune-states of central Italy. Zealots who can be isolated and controlled are a nuisance. Zealots in the heart of Lasombra power, dangerously near zones of conflict, must be destroyed.

prefer the civilized south and west. While Gangrel going a’ Viking are always a concern, the Lasombra prefer to leave the Animals to their own devices. Simply put, the Gangrel have nothing the Lasombra want, and neither they nor their mortal pawns are enough of a threat to anything the Lasombra hold dear to provoke a response from the clan as a whole. And thus, whenever possible, they are. C APPADOCIANS

Young Lasombra who run afoul of Gangrel- even fatally so - are looked upon with derision by their peers and elders. It is a truism among the Magisters that Gangrel are generally The Lasombra have no use for the Graverobbers. While

so simpleminded and unsophisticated that any Lasombra wor- the Cappadocian devotion to study and faith is admirable, the

thy of the name should be able to tie one in knots. fact remains that with the Cappadocians, there is never any end result. There is no way to measure success or failure of any 1 LIBELLUS SANGUINIS 1 . .

E

beautiful MALKAVIANS things. As such, while the Lasombra still regard the kept Insanity locked is away an illness, - or and carefully those controlled. tainted with It it is are not best

a coincidence that seers and madmen are often linked, for they are commonly one and the same. The challenge for the Lasombra, then, is to cultivate the one without being misled by the other.

Coloring the feelings the Lasombra have for the Madmen is, inevitably, Rome. To this night, many Lasombra hold the Malkavians and Ventrue equally responsible for the ruin of the Republic, never mind the empire. Lasombra who have seen at least seven centuries have no love for the Madmen, and in many instances, demand a reckoning for the blood of centuries ago. Fortunately for the Malkavians, such Lasombra are fewer these nights and often occupied with matters on Sicily or in al- Andalus. Magisters of newer vintage sometimes, cautiously, seek Malkavian counsel, anonymously if possible. NOSFERATU

There are some flavors of fervor that make even the most devout Lasombra uneasy. The energy with which the Lepers hurl themselves into acts of self-flagellation and penance is nothing even those Lasombra who are overtly Christian can countenance. To these Lasombra, Nosferatu are anathema, no matter how valuable their information might be. Less scrupu- lous Magisters have used their position in the Church, however, to play upon Nosferatu religious devotion, extracting far more from the Lepers than a secular bargain might have yielded.

For good or ill, the sharper-eyed among the Lasombra have also noticed the resonance between the appearance of Nosferatu and outbreaks of plague and other diseases that fester in the blood. Drawing the right conclusions for all the wrong reasons, these Lasombra have decided to protect their flocks by barring Nosferatu from their demesnes. The Nosferatu find their way in regardless, of course, but such Lepers tend to be a bit more circumspect about trips to plague pits and the like, which cut down on the incidence of the illnesses they might otherwise bring.

RAVNOS

Lasombra don’t like Ravnos. Ravnos are bringers of disorder, arguably more so than the Malkavians, and can introduce destructive chaos into a Magister’s most carefully laid plans. However, bitter centuries of experience with the Charlatans has demonstrated the folly in attempting to deal with them directly; let the Ventrue announce their bans and decrees, then suffer the consequences. Instead, Lasombra do their best to encourage Ravnos to move through their lands to the domains of others. In Italy, for example, many Lasombra do their best to help passing Ravnos migrate - due north. TOREADOR

There are several things the Artisans and the Magisters share: an interest in thechurch (though for different reasons), an elevated estimate of their own worth and a concern for

Toreador as feckless and the Toreador see the Lasombra as soulless, members of the two clans still come to frequent accommodations.

Rome, in particular, is an area of confluence for the two clans. Many Toreador seek patrons within the Church, while Lasombra princes of the church are more than happy to sponsor those artists who will proclaim God’s glory and their own. The art of the taifas is another magnet to Artisans of more artistic taste, and traveling to Grenada, for example, requires obtaining permission from those Lasombra whose domains the traveler would cross. Of course, the Lasombra are only too happy to grant this permission, in part to demonstrate to the rest of the world the quality of their possessions, and also, in part to remind the curious Toreador of the favor for ever after. TREMERE

Among the Lasombra, there is a grudging respect for the way in which the Tremere seized immortality for themselves. On the other hand, admiration for the performance of a difficult feat does not mandate an admiration for the ones who performed it, and few Lasombra see anything worthwhile in the Tremere. In fact, the Tremere are viewed almost as a more dangerous version of the Cappadocians, less learned but with a will to put their knowledge to practical use.

The war raging between the Tremere and Tzimisce suits the wishes of the lord of Caste1 d’Ombro and his childer. With luck, the Usurpers and Fiends will eliminate each other without ever stirring from their Godforsaken corner of the world to trouble the night in better places. TZIMISCE

The alliances one makes are sometimes curious. To the Lasombra, rulership is all, while to the Tzimisce it is merely a means to an end. Dealing with a Tzimisce is often an exercise in futility for a Magister, for the Fiends rarely have use for what the Lasombra offer.

Still, there is an undeniable nobility to the Tzimisce, alien though it might be. Like the Lasombra, the Fiends understand their place in the world to be above the ruck and run of mortals - and other Cainites - and from that shared elevation, something of an understanding has grown up. The Lasombra and Tzimisce may not like each other, but they understand each other on a certain level and that makes for a degree of acceptance, if not trust. VENTRUE

If the Lasombra see themselves as those who control events and master policy, then they perceive the Ventrue as petty nobles fresh in from the hinterlands, too stupid to use anything but the sword to get their way and holding to no civilized standard of honor. The conflict raging in northern Italy - particularly with the imposition of Frederick I1 as emperor and later the Hohenstaufens, has only exacerbated this disdain. “Who are these Ventrue,” the Lasombra ask, “to

use brute force to steal what we have labored to create?" The Concordat of Worms, which reinforced papal independence, the victory of the Church-backed Lombard League of free cities over Emperor Frederick Barbarossa I at Legnano, the passage of Sicily to the Angevins and thence to the house of Aragon - all have the hallmarks of Lasombra disdain for the Ventrue.

Matters are not quite so bad in the Holy Land, although Islamic Lasombra do make it a point of picking off Ventrue whenever they can. However, the Lasombra-backed Spanish knightly orders work well with those that have links to the Ventrue. The common enemy takes precedence there, though a Lasombra still hates to see a victory or even credit given to a Ventrue.

In the end, though, the Ventrue are just a pale imitation of the Lasombra, mistaking rulership for dominion, mandates of behavior for honor, and the occasional triumph of brute force for skill. OTHERS BAALI

To a true Lasombra, any Cainite who exchanges his freedom of will for power, even if that power is enough to crack Heaven itself, is a fool. To make a master of a devil is the act of a coward who fears his own mind; should Satan step forth on Earth, many Lasombra will greet him with respect but without subservience.

For according to the Lasombra mindset, the Baali have no power. Whatever they know is borrowed, and they made a poor trade to get it. And, while the effects of Daimonion are certainly deserving of fear, the wielders of that power are empty shells, not even worthy of pity. To a Magister's way of thinking, a Baali should be treated exactly for what he is: dangerous vermin. SALUBRI

The clan is split on the matter of Saulot's childer, prima- rily because of Saulot himself. The rumors that swirled around the father of this bloodline when he returned from his sojourn east - talk of deals struck with beings who drank not just blood, but also life itself, stories of shambling corpses contain- ing souls escaped from Hell, and monstrosities that dripped green worms, all bent to Saulot's will - were disquieting. O n the other hand, the hatred the Tremere hold for the Salubri makes it worthwhile to support the Healers, if for no other reason than to watch the Usurpers' impotent rage. THE KIASYD

Meddle not in the affairs of wizards, some say, for they are tricky bastards with the moral sense of a worn-out boot. Such was the lesson certain Lasombra delving haphazardly into the roots of Obtenebration learned during the reign of Julian the Apostate.

The historical accounts of the occasion, lovingly kept by the prime participant in the drama, indicate that the re- searches of a trio of Lasombra led them to create a potion of the blood of Unseelie fae whom the vampires had captured, as well as certain herbal essences and other, less identifiable, things. The final ingredient, however, came when the three trafficked with a wizard or shaman from one of the countless Teutonic tribes to obtain something the sorcerer labeled the “blood of Zeemebooch, god of the underworld.”

What was actually in the potion the wizard sold was something a good deal more interesting - what, exactly, no one knows - but not quite what the hapless Lasombra Marconius and his sponsors were aiming for. As all of their dosages and “calculations” were based on the supposition that they had been sold the real goods by the mysterious wizard (who, of course, was never heard from again), it was not a surprise that the experiment went horribly wrong.

Marconius was rapidly changed by the substance he ingested: growing taller, thinner and even paler. His eyes changed to orbs of inky black, his skin acquired a sheen that was almost a glow and his features took on a pronounced fae cast. Needless to say, other Lasombra noticed.

Furthermore, the clan elders were displeased, not with the excessively impressionable Marconius (who had not been long under the shadow and, in all probability, had been tricked into drinking the tainted blood) and certainly not with his sponsors in this new state. Interestingly, the two Cainites who had induced the changes in Marconius did their best to disown responsibility for their handiwork, but to no avail. Innocent to the enormity of his mistake, Marconius identified them with- out hesitation.

Those elders in the vicinity were livid with the whole situation. Unauthorized blood experimentation? Trafficking with a magus (and then not even discovering the wizard’s name)? The risk of offending the fae? All of these were considerations that the noble experimenters had neglected to take into account. For their carelessness, they were destroyed. Marconius himself was exiled from Lasombra company and forbidden to create childer. However, most Magisters held the opinion that the strange-looking vampire would not be long for this world, even if he did (as they expected) attempt to Embrace. One elder even mentioned privately that he’d moved to let Marconius go because he’d received word from local fae lords that they were interested in punishing the unfortunate test subject.

This was, perhaps, a mistake; the Unseelie fae apparently did not hold up their end of the bargain. Instead, as rumor has it, the cagey fae actually aided Marconius with his studies of Obtenebration, and even bestowed some of their magical powers upon him. Those who deal with the Kiasyd have learned that these enigmatic vampires call their fae (or perhaps

fey?) powers “Mytherceria,” though they are known to still practice the Lasombra Disciplines of Potence and Obtenebration as well.

Marconius and his line were not heard from by the other Lasombra until late in the 12th century, when they resurfaced in Strasbourg. Many members of Amici Noctis recognized Marconius from the panicked Ventrue reports of the “strange creatures” who had driven them forth. There followed a brief and hurried consultation of the Friends of the Night, at which point it was decided to do.. .

. . .nothing. After all, Marconius was bothering the Ventrue, and Strasbourg was hundreds of miles from areas of Lasombra strength.

These days the only point of contact that the Kiasyd and Lasombra have is at the library. As research seems to be the primary focus of Kiasyd existence, and as they have shown remarkable persistence in going after materials they desire (to the point of walking through walls to get them), Amici Noctis have decided to humor those few Kiasyd and allow them reasonable access to Lasombra-held libraries. The Kiasyd seem to hold no residual grudges over the ill treatment of their progenitor, and Marconius himself has stated that he is “past the need for vengeance.” While this is something of a small relief to those Lasombra actually involved in Marconius’ banishment, the fact remains that the Kiasyd are so few that even if they did hold a grudge, they possess neither the strength nor the numbers to do anything about it. N E W TRAITS MERITS R RELIGIOUS PROHIBITJON: (2-4 PT FLAW)

Takenfrom Hebrew or Islamic stock, you grew up strongly religious. Part of that religion, however, is a dietary restriction forbidding you to taste blood. Even animal blood is forbidden to you by law, and you find yourself racked by pangs of conscience every time you feed.

This is a variable-point Flaw. At 2 points, you simply restrict yourself to feeding on animals or blood that has been drained by a ritual butcher. At 4 points you abstain from feeding unless it is absolutely necessary (3 Blood Points or less), and even then you may well fall into pits of self- flagellating despair. CLOAKED IN SHADOW: (4 PT FLAW)

The shadows come to you even when you do not call them, wrapping themselves around you like a cloak in con- stant motion. This makes you stand out in any crowd, and you can no longer pass for “normal” even when you so wish. Other Cainites may well avoid your company, being discomfited by your strange affliction. Lasombra in particular find you un-

pleasant \!-- your inability company to master (+2 difficulty your shadows on all demonstrates Social rolls) a because failure of will on your part. MARKED FOR DEATH: (2-5 PT FLAW)

The Courts of Blood have found against you and at least 1 one can Furthermore, court’s fledgling defeat decision this is there now threat - hot your is on the after your peers implied your own, obviously blood. insult the While wait feel bound is you that maddening. up probably you in the are incompetent and need to be replaced. After all, even if you defeat one would-be diablerist, there is no guarantee you )

won’t be hunted by a second, or a third.

The point cost of this Flaw varies, depending upon the strength of the Cainite who has been granted permission to hunt you, the conditions laid upon the hunt and whether or not the court has seen fit to inform you of your current status. Consult with your Storyteller to see what the details of your ) PRESTIGIOUS situation are - and CONFESSOR: how many she’ll share (1 PT with MERIT) you. 1

You have been granted the favor of confession with one of the ranking priests among the Lasombra. This provides you with access to one of the “powers that be” in the clan, as well as providing you with a certain prestige among your equals. After all, it was you who was called to the cathedral, not they.

7 r Of course, given time and the appropriate background, you may become a confessor of this sort, granting you access to all sorts of interesting information- subject to the sanctity of the confessional booth, of course. DISCIPLINES DARK HUNTER (OBTENEBRATION LEVEL EIGHT)

A Dark Hunter is a shadowy duplicate of the summoning vampire himself. A simulacrum made entirely of shadow, the Dark Hunter appears as a shadowy silhouette of the vampire, right down to the weapons, clothes and so forth. (Unique items will be duplicated in form, though they do not function.) Indeed, at a distance, the Dark Hunter may well be mistaken for its master.

A summoned Dark Hunter will do nothing until given a quarry. Once the target has been assigned, however, the Dark Hunter is relentless in stalking him, never resting (except during hours of daylight) until the chase is finished. However, that doesn’t mean that the Hunter is stupid or self-destructive; single-minded does not necessarily mean simpleminded.

Depending upon instruction, a Dark Hunter can seek either to subdue or slay its target; in the former case, it will automatically bring the victim back to its master by whatever

means available. Contrary to rumor, the Hunter cannot van- ish into shadow and transport itself “home”; it must cover every foot of ground between it and its master. Once the Hunter’s mission is accomplished, however, it vanishes in- stantly, returning to whatever dark realm from which it came. System: To summon a Dark Hunter, the player rolls Stamina + Leadership (difficulty 8), “feeds” the newly sum- monedshadow 5 Blood Points and invests a point of Willpower to give the creature some permanence. However, the creature willnot act untilgiven a target and instructions. To fix a target within a Dark Hunter’s mind, the summoning vampire must give something of the quarry’s to the Hunter so that it can gain the “spiritual signature” of the one being hunted. Once that is done, the Hunter sets off at once.

A Dark Hunter possesses the same Attributes as the vampire who created it, down to Willpower. However, the Hunter’s use of Disciplines is limited to Unseen Presence only. Still, in most cases that is more than enough.

Like Night Shades (from the Dark Ages Companion), Dark Hunters take damage normally, as well as from fire and sunlight. A Dark Hunter supposedly can speak (in the voice of its vampiric creator), but there are none alive today who can testify to that fact.

this art grants its wielder the ability to literally blockout the sun. By invoking this power, a Lasombra blots out the sky with darkness. The moon, the stars, even the sun - all are covered by an inky black shroud that stretches from horizon to horizon. There are precisely three Lasombra who have demon- strated mastery of this power: Lasombra himself, Montan0 and a Magister of Greek heritage formerly known as Boukephos. These three steadfastly refuse to teach this art to any others, and those who press too hard for this knowledge run the risk of incurring the displeasure of these three elders.

System: The player spends two Willpower points for the Cainite. The effects of this power last precisely one hour, at which point the darkness fades away. The powers of this veil of blackness are such that while it is in effect, a vampire can walk about at midday and not feel any ill effects from the sun. The darkness of Tchernabog is complete, and under its shadow even lanterns and torches seem dim and weak. Otherwise the darkness conforms to that summoned forth by the Obtenebration power Nocturne.

BTENEBRATION LEVEL NINE) Far more showy than necessary, this power’s name derives from a Slavic word meaning “black god.” It is a fitting title, as

CISES, ABUSES AND RUMORS

There are some Lasombra who reputedly can see through the eyes of their Dark Hunters, sometimes even extending their perceptions across multiple shadowy surrogates. Theoretically, if one wounds a Dark Hunter that a Lasombra is "listening in" on, one might wound the vampire as well, but this has never been proven.

It is rumored that Lasombra himself once sent a pack of Dark Hunters after Caine himself, but the shadow creatures were unable to discover his whereabouts. Supposedly, these Hunters still wander the Earth, searching for Caine with an devotion long since fractured into madness.

The use of a Dark Hunter to assault a rival is considered to be a grave breach of etiquette among the Lasombra, equivalent to a thrown gauntlet at the beginning of a duel. After all, no Lasombra capable of summoning a Dark Hunter should be in the least bit threatened by one. On the other hand, there's nothing in Magister protocol forbidding the sending of a Dark Hunter after one's inferiors- and different Lasombra define their inferiors in different ways.

LIBELLUS SANGUINIS 1

32

SMOTHERING DARKNESS

Obtenebration 2, Obfuscate 1

A Magister may use Smothering Darkness to sum- mon fluttering shadows that immediately flock to the nearest light sources (torches, candles, oil lamps and the like) and douse them. The behavior of these shadows is akin to that of moths; they find the brightest light source and then dive into it in hopes of being consumed. By using this power a Lasombra can plunge an entire area into darkness almost immediately, rendering those un- prepared for it completely helpless.

System: Each success on a Wits + Occult roll (difficulty 6) produces a fluttering shadow which then proceeds immediately to the nearest light source in an attempt to douse it. These shadows can cause no damage but may well collide with other characters in their flight, producing confusion and fear. The shadows can smother any fire up to the size of a torch; anything larger requires the attention of multiple shadows. As soon as a shadow douses a flame, that shadow vanishes. If there are more shadows than there are fires to extinguish, the excess number will flap around in the dark, likely causing more confusion, before finally vanishing into whatever dark place they originated. This power costs 9 experience points.

SHADOWED EYES

Obtenebration 3, Auspex 3

This particular skill is a matter of control and delicacy, not raw power. The wielder. summons forth small patches of blackness which cover the eyes of the target, rendering him effectively blind and giving him a demonic appearance. Those thus afflicted may find themselves in more than a little trouble with their neighbors who have little tolerance for the blind, and less for those who appear unnatural.

System: The player rolls Dexterity+ Occult (diffi- culty 7). If he succeeds, he summons the darkness successfully and blinds his target. The number of suc- cesses determines the duration of the shadows.

Successes

Duration

one turn

Additional successes produce longer effects. The enveloping shadow cannot be removed by anything short of plucking out the eye thus covered a some what drastic remedy.

Note: This power affects all of the eyes of the victim, whether he be a one-eyed beggar, a "normal" vampire, a Salubri or the mythical Argus.

Certain Lasombra have been able to create a purely cosmetic variation on this power, covering their own eyes with shadows while still maintaining the ability to see clearly. Using this power has the same difficulty as a regular use of Shadowed Eyes but can impose terror on any beholding it (Willpower roll. difficulty 5 to avoid fleeing in fear). Learning this power costs 12 experience points. DARK STEEL

Obtenebration 3, Potence 3

Where Arms of Ahriman normally allows a Lasombra to summon forth tentacles of pure shadow to assault his foes, this bastardized power grants those pseudopods of darkness greater strength and endur- ance. Cainites used to dealing with the normal manifestation of this power may find themselves fa- tally surprised by the use of Dark Steel instead.

System: Using Dark Steel requires a Manipula- tion + Occult roll (difficulty 7) and the expenditure of 2 Blood Points. Each success summons forth one tentacle, which then appears from a nearby shadow (under a piece of furniture, from within the summon- ing vampire's cloak, etc.). The tentacles are all eight feet long and have Strength and Dexterity ratings equivalent to twice the vampire's Obtenebration rat- ing. Furthermore, the vampire can expend a Blood Point, "feeding" it to the tentacles; for each point thus spent, the tentacles' ratings increase by one. A Dark Steel tentacle does Strength + 2 crushing damage, has six Health Levels, and takes damage from fire and sunlight in addition to normal attacks. It costs 18 experience points to learn this power.

2

one minute

3

five minutes

4

30 minutes

one hour

BOOK ONE: LASOMBRA

33

Quote: I find YOUT lack of devotion disturbing. Howewer, 1 had expected as much, which is why I took the precaution of obtaining these.. .papers from Rome. I’ll let you look them ower, then reconsider YOUT position on the disposition of those lands.

Prelude: In an age when foot soldiers are considered “residue” by their lords and the middle class is nonexistent, the Church is the one avenue of social advancement for an enterprising young man with intelligence and enough coin to buy his way into the appropriate monastery.

Such were your beginnings, and while your devotion to the forms and figures of doc- trine was impeccable, your faith always was a cold thing. You were always more interested in your abbey’s lands, hold.

Needless to say, you accepted and joined the ranks of the Magisrri the following night.

Concept: You serve as a traveling nuncio for the Church and the Lasombra, working to further the ends of both. From the Levant to al-Andalus, you’ve worked your silver-tongued magic on the recalcitrant, the fearful and the heretical, and always both of your masters have benefited. When simple persuasion has failed, you’ve been known to employ other methods, but always for the benefit of the Church and the clan. After all, the greater good is what matters.

Roleplaying Hints: Given time, everyone makes mis- takes. That’s why you’re always willing to grant others time. You are cold and calculating, yet scrupulously formal. None can find fault with your manners, but there’s something indescribably disconcerting about you. You do your best to cultivate this discomfort in others as it gives you the upper hand in your business dealings. If it distances you from others in social situations, well, that’s a sacrifice you’re quite willing to make.

Equipment: Habit, horse, scrollssealed with the signetsof various Church officials, crucifix and rosary, short-handled mace -ABILITIES- TALENTS Acting Alemc\~-o Athletics-o Brawl-o Dodge-o E m p a t h y . o o o o 0 o o o o o o o o o o 00 o o o o o o o o o o Innmidarton-m.oooo Animal Crafts-. Archery-o Ken-o SKILIS o eo o o o o o o o o o o o o Etquene-a Herbelam-• Music M e l e e oooooo o o o o a o o o o o o o o o o Academics-a Hearth Inveatwtmn-m Lsw- Lmpuutiu-e \~culr-.ooooo Medicine-o Larceny- 0 0 00 0 Ride .00000 -, Lcadcrahkp-\*.oooo Subterfuge-. DISCIPLINES ..a000 o 000000 000000 o eo o o \*-:;:; o o o o -ADVANTAGES- w- -0000 Stealth S INFLUENCE

u e r v BKCKGRCUNDS w a L ..oooo o o o o o o 0 0 0 .000

POh\!\\U-. Science-oooooo Seneschal. GNumJGarrnaJ. Self.cnnrrol/lRYtme\* Courage-..oo

Wdam-o KNOWL\~\~GES o o 0 o o o o o oo o o o o o o o o o o o o o o

.O 0 00

o o o o o ..O 0 =OTHER TRAITS= ======ROAD- ;;;;:; 000000 ..e.... HEAVEN ===== Bm& HFALM =

000000 -w \_\_ ILLPOWER= 000 Hurt lnprcd Wounded -1 -I 2 0 0 0 000000 000000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Crtppled Mauled .Z -5 0 0 000000 oooooo 000000

\=\~\~\~m\~--. 00000nrJO00 =====WEKKNW.= Insapacaaed 0 000000 oo oooo 000000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0000000000 c-rfwwwm-mrmrt

cffLmNflWh%l

before dawn.

Quote: And Seville wishes our help against the Christian armies? Fascinating. It would seem that they are unaware of our other arrangements, no?

Prelude: Born into the nobility of a small city-state in the Iberian peninsula, you spent your formative years learning government, soldiering and diplomacy. All three were neces- sary, with the Christians steadily marching closer and the Berber religious fanatics in North Africa making noises about cleansing the land of all unbelievers. Neither side promised to be terribly sympathetic to the city of poets and philosophers your family had built, so you watched your father play one side against the other. He directed the Christian armies against other taifus, made all of the pious noises the imams needed to hear and kept

You implemented the stranger's suggestions and lo\! your troubles lessened. A year to the night later, he returned and noted how well you had learned your lessons. He then offered you a place in the greatest academy of caliphs and kings, the clan of Montano. Eagerly, you accepted, and you have ruled from the shadows ever since. Soon, you suppose, you shall have to "die" and give the throne over to another, but the power will always be yours, now and forever.

Concept: With one eye on the Berbers across the sea and the other on the encroaching Christians, you are a player in the great political game of the Reconquista. Keeping your own tatfa safe from the fanatics on either side is your goal, and to accomplish it you'll gladly sacrifice whatever is necessary. It's all politics, nothing personal.

Roleplaying Hints: The safety of your taifa comes first and foremost. You will deal with Ahriman himself - in fact, you suspect you already have - in order to keep the walls unbreached. While you are still uncomfortable with some of But he died, as

the details of your new existence, as the Qu'ran forbids the kings are wont to do,

drinking of blood, you find that what you have learned more and the responsibili-

than makes up for your discomfort. And, if tonight you can do ties of the throne descended upon you.

this after.. for . .

one city, what will tomorrow night hold? Or the night

You had not

Equipment: Robes of state, scimitar, attendants, jewelry, learned the

access to the scrolls of the Qu'ran

I

enemies

move. He recited

woes and offered solutions to each.

c

II - DISC\~PWNES c SKILLS Animal Archev-• t KenPo a r r Enquerte-o Herbslurno Acrw TULENTS o 0 0 0 0 A l e \~ r n c s Arhlctw-0 . 0 o o o o o 0 o o o 0 o o o o 0 .ooooo s 0 0 \~ o o o o 0 o 0 o 0

o 0

Brawl/ 00 000

0 Dodge-. Ernparhypm Inrimidanon-o 0 o 0 o o 0 o o 0 o o 0 o o

0 M r l e c \~ m m o 0 0 0 Music oooooo Larcenvpo Lcadcrrhlp-m Subrerfuec\_\_m 0 a 0 o o 0 o o 0 o o 0 o o

Ride-. 0000 Stealth-oooooo S"Wl"al-0 ADVANTAGES- BACKGRCUNDS 0 0 0 0 0

VIRTUES ..moo

000000

u 0 EIFConrrol/ln\*mn\_. 000000 00000 -e -

000000 0 0 0 0 0

G u r a g c m . . 0 0 0

Quote: I am quite aware of what the master thinks he requires. He is, ofcourse, wrong. Follow these instructions instead, and remember whose displeasure you're more likely to incur by disobeying.

Prelude: You were born to service, but never did anyone dream that you would rise as high as you did. Anyone but you, that is - you knew early on that you would rather die than continue to be common. Let your dullard brothers and sisters toil as serfs and eke out survival from the soil. You saw the splendor and the gold that the wealthy possessed, and you wanted it.

So you took service in a noble house at an early age, the age at which a young boy is likely to catch the eye of a while you great had your lord made duties with yourself tastes as a catamite the indispensable Church ended might to after the frown a household while, upon. by And

then

staff,

L-

who were as nobility to the rest of the servants. Even with your bedchamber service at an end, you found a position for vourself among the hierarchy of servants and worked your way to the top of it. Before long, all of the household affairs were in your hands - the wine cellars, the kitchen, the privy purse - and while your master may have claimed that the house was his, you knew better. It was yours.

The local Magister agreed. He visited one night and had a long discussion with you, primarily about whether or not it I was appropriate for a servant to usurp his master's place. Your argument was that it was entirely correct to do so, presuming the servant knew his business better than the master did. He laughed and offered you the opportunity to put . .

your theory to the test. You accepted, sensing an opportunity for

GENERATION: PLAYER: NRTUHE: 7wAvT ntn DEMEHNOH: INNOVATOP HUWN? even further advancement. The rest has been, if nothing else, a learning experience.

Concept: You are absolute master of your world, regard- less of what the lord you serve thinks. The servants are yours to command, the estate's moneys yours to plunder. The house and all decisions made regarding it are under your control, and so is your master. While to the outside world you appear as simply the estate's reeve, the more sinister truth is known to a few. However, those who plotted against your master have found you afar more challenging opponent than he could ever be.

Roleplaying Hints: Follow form and procedure exactly. You know who is to sit where at the table, which wine is to be served to each guest, and how much the stableboy thinks he's getting away with stealing. Of course, you are beyond dealing with such petty concerns yourself, and so you have one of the other servants handle everything that needs doing. Without pretensions or excessive show, leave no doubt that you are in command at all times.

II JAWANTAGES-

MANOR

Quote: If you ever try to cloister me again, 1’11 cut out your heart with the sword you gave me. Have I made myself clear, father? Prelude: The only child of your father’s first wife, it looked for years as if you would be his heir as well. As such, he was perhaps a bit more liberal with you than he should have been: teaching you riding, fencing, falconry and other “men’s” pursuits. Even though it was your future husband whostood to inherit everything (and the attempts to marry you off grew more and more frequent as you grew older), Papa had enough of a soft spot for you that he gave you some leeway in your studies. “Willful” and “unladylike” is what the others called you, but who cared for their opinions?

Your father also gave you unheard-of latitude in allowing you to refuse potential suitors. After all, he didn’t want his greatest treasure in hands that were unworthy to hold it, or so he told you. This proved to be your undoing in the end, however. Late in life, your father remarried and his cow of a second wife gave birth to a child.

A son. Suddenly, you went from only child to extra one, and without the prospects of inheritance,

and you were the terror of your cloister until you came to the 1 attention of a Magistra. She had no patience for your impieties or selfish fits but liked what she saw of your independent streak and unexpected skills. Having said you’d rather die than become a nun, you made good on your word and resurfaced in the outside world as a member of the Lasombra.

Concept: Accustomed to certain freedoms, you reacted poorly to having them taken away from you. Currently you dwell as a scandal and a thorn in your stepmother’s side - she takes your reappearance and shocking behavior as dagger thrusts at the “family honor” she seeks to co-opt for the sake of her brat. While none are certain of how you maintain your extravagant ‘‘lifestyle,’’ rumors flow fast and furious. You select the most outrageous and fan them- it helps you pass the time. Roleplaying Hints: You are not now, nor have you ever been, “just awoman.”Youcan run, ride, fight anddo just about anything else as well as a man (if not better), and you aren’t shy about proving it. As an only child (as far as you’re concerned, your half-brother is a bastard), you are used to receiving a great deal of attention, and should others Lot grant you your due, you are easily angered.

Equipment: Man’s riding outfit glove, rosary

short sword, falconer’s

PLRYER: NATunE: DEMEUNOR: LEgEL ROGUE GENERATION: HAVEN: lorn CHRONICLE: tkxtenry-a Srammmpa Smength\_\_a PllYslcnL a a a a a o a a o o o o o

o o

CWN: ATTRIBUTES- USDUgm SKIAL CONCEPT: DduMfCMr\* UANOR MENTRL Chanrma-a Manipulation-\# Appearance-a ll - ABILITIES SKILU a a a 0 a a 0 0 o o o 0 o

0 o

Pcrceprlon\_\_a lntcllwnce-• 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Winpa a 0 0 0 0 KNOWLEDFES

B r a w l Dodge\_\_\# \# o a 0 o 0 o 0 0 0 0 Ernparhy-o o o o 0 0 Inomidanon-a Larceny-b b o 0 o 0 o 0 o 0 o

Etiquettep\# 0 o 0 0 0 L a s o 0 0 0 0 0 Hcrbahsrn\_\_o 0 0 0 0 0

Lmyiatopa 0 0 0 0 0 M c l c c a a a 0 0 0

MedicinePo 0 0 0 0 0 M u s Ride i c . a 0 a 0 o 0 o 0 0 0 o

O c r v l t \~ 0 a 0 0 0 0 P o l i r i c r o 0 0 0 0 0 II -

ADVANTAGES- 000000 o ooooo D O DOOOO 0 0 0 Gurage-aa\*\*\* 000000 1 I

Inwed -1 0

BOOK ONE: LASOMBRA

Of Historical Note - What Have Shadows Wrought?

Lasombra do not enjoy changing the course of history. Instead, they prefer to make subtle alterations to the eddying stream of events, delicately convincingposterity through a series of feather-light touches. A garrison weakened dangerously here, a land tax hiked up to a point where it crosses from oppressive to intolerable there, and before long, events work out exactly as the Lasombra would have it.

Crude and overt gestures are regarded as unworthy of the Magisters. A Lasombra should not need to set off his work with an exclamation point when a subtle flourish will suffice. As the various clans work their wills on each other and mortal society, it has become a point of pride among the Magisters to exert as little control as possible to their ends. It is the lesser clans, they feel, who nee

feel, who need to ghoul

ing's entire court tol

ourt to keep him in line; to win applause from his peers Magister would simply the estimation of other Lasombra (the enthrall the king's mistress and control him

thus. Additional "points" in

only ones who matter) would come from controlling the mistress without use of the Blood, and so on. The more subtle and delicate the manipulation, the more the Lasombra like it and the more praise and respect is bestowed upon the

the manipulator.

become

At this point, these subtle games of mortal statesmanship have come tradition among the Magisters. Many Lasombra of recent Becoming have no thought to question t this policy. After all, it is all they have known in their unlives and is as natural to them as breathing once was. Older Lasombra, however, recall a time when even their political manipulations—or at least those of vanished peers cruder. More vicious. Less subtle. And, perhaps, too disastrous to contemplate.

\- were

For, while the clan has made excellent use of the sprawling Church, and while many Lasombra are devout in their faith, it remains indisputable that the marriage of Christian missionary zeal to the still- formidable structure of Constantine's Roman Empire was a disaster for the Cainites of Europe, as well as for the Middle East and northern

LIBELLUS SANGUINIS 1

38

Africa. And for eight centuries, certain Magistri have had their suspi- cions as to how precisely those two august bodies-church and state

were joined.

The story currently enjoying vogue among those of the clan inclined to gossip goes something like this: Montano, who has never denied doing so, coerced a Ravnos to create the image of the chi rho the sign of Christ in the sky outside of Rome on the evening of the 27th of October, 312. The audience for this illusion was one man: the Emperor Constantine, soon to take the field against his rival Maxenius. It is this vision, the historians of the clan say, that drove the nominally sympathetic Constantine into a whole-hearted embrace of Christian- ity. Ergo, Montano, and hence the Lasombra bear the responsibility for making the empire a Christian one.

Critics of this theory - and there are many, not including those Lasombra who simply dissolve into incredulous laughter when the matter comes up -can poke numerous holes in it. The notion of a Lasombra relying on a Ravnos for anything rings false in most ears. The sheer illogic of Constantine's vision-why did no one else in Rome see this sign from above?-rings contrary to all that is known about the way the Ravnos' power of illusion works. Why would Montano, ever a man of direct action and uncompromising honor, stoop to such a trick? The idea defies what all who know the Cainite expect from him.

Finally, there is the question of why exactly Montano would even want the crumbling empire to become Christian. While it is true that official acceptance of Christianity as the state religion provided a stabilizing influence on the empire and that Rome had once been a Lasombra playground, there remains the ineluctable fact that Montano himself had not the slightest Christian leanings. If Lasombra's childe wished to strengthen Constantine's martial spirit, a manifestation of the competing Mithraic faith might well have served better. Turning the other cheek is an admirable doctrine, but it doesn't lend itself well to small-unit tactics. This argument sets the conspiracy theorists off again, wild with speculation that perhaps Montano chose the rela- tively pacifistic Christian belief deliberately in hopes of calming the mutinous Empire....

So the rumors swirl, each more nonsensical than the last. And yet...perhaps Montano saw no other way to save the empire, and perhaps a Ravnos could be coerced to do Montano's will, and perhaps a trusted ghoul could deliver a message detailing when the emperor would be alone and outside of the city, and perhaps...and s

so on. For every logical refutation of the argument that level-headed Magisters provide, the theory's proponents come up with another explanation.

And, as the idea's supporters continuously point out, Montano himself has never denied it. After all, he is the only one who really knows.

BOOK ONE: LASOMBRA

39

B

ook Two: Fiends

Ah the honored guest

awakens\!

Look at him, sweetlings, dearest beloveds\! He moans in his stupor as though night shades as sail him\! Poor, poor visitant\! Would that I could have welcomed him to Castle Volhyny with a panoply, music, piands for voe receive so tevo callers\!

Hist\! His eyes open\!

Welcome, traveler\! A thousand welcomes\! I am Boleslav Volhyny, voivode of.. .all you survey. Allow me to introduce my scions and delights. This is Borivoj, tall and sinewed like a lion, pride of his sire. Next is Oleg, master of the hunt, the one who escorted you beneath my eaves. down; you alarm our guest\! All in due (Nay, time.. Oleg, . .) put Gentle that

Ludmilla is so shy she stands away in shadow; it is she who toys with the straps - ah\! You must forgive Drahomira; she can be regrettably forward. For so long as you sojourn beneath my roof, we stand ready to offer you all the hospitality of the East. Speakest thou Slavonic?No? Well, then, I shalldiscourse with you in your argot. You will forgive my poor diction- the legions never penetrated this far into our lands, and so my Latin rios.. . . comes My from the books dearest Myca sends me pardon; of course you know nothing of

as cu-

such matters.

What is your name, honored guest? Eh? Beg pardon, gentle sir, I did not understand. Ah.. .Stephen. A Christian name. He was a saint, was he not? You Christians have so many saints ... but then, I suppose, Christians have a regrettable predilec- tion for dying in one form of agony or another. Pity.

You will be so kind as to forgive the somewhat.. .Procrustean accom- modations. Here across the Elbe are not so civilized as your fine masters ...y etwhatwelackinnice- ties, I assure you, we make up for in meticulous attentiveness. But then, that is why your Teuton wolflings hurl ger lovers.. themselves . the Drung on us nach like overea- Osten, I believe a few of your chantry-wag prophetically dub it.

Nay - don’t bother to deny, what they whisper. The Blood calls to us, yes indeed. I am old, but I yet know the scent of a Tremere consor, one all battened on Usurper vitae. We Tzimisce can smell it. Not surprising, really - it smells similar to our own. Remarkably similar. Almost identical, if truth be known.

But enough of that. We are curious, Stephen. If nothing else, we in the East are known for our cordial hospitality. Why, then, on a night like this, when the fog creeps low through the vales and the hills shiver with the howls of wolves, did think to lurk outside our fortress walls?

What is that? You meant no offense? My dear boy, none taken\! Your wizardly masters may cloister themselves in their towers, glowering balefully on strangers, but we Tzimisce are an open and trusting folk. Indeed, our reputation for recep- tiveness is matched only by our reputation for mercy. Would you not agree, Stephen? What is it your masters call us, as they 1 fearfully scan the night from their battlements?

LIBELLUS SANGUINIS 1

Why, Stephen, you are pale and shaking\! Did I not say that the night air might prove bad for your health? I had thought to let you pass the night and leave come the morn, but you seemgripped with illness\! That settles it, then- you shall stay with us indefinitely, and we shall work our arts of physick upon you, that you might be made.. .well. What - oh, do not think to thank us\! It is the smallest task, and one to which we shall set with alacrity\! After all, save for the stimulating diversion your Tremere masters have recently seen fit to offer, there is little to occupy us in the Old Country. No, we stand ready to provide our fullest attention to you tonight.. .and the night after.. .and the night after.. .and

Ahh - devils take that noise\! Oleg, send some szEachta to quiet that infernal shrieking\!

Now, then - why, dearest Stephen, once more you are rattling in your irons\! What discommodes you so? Truly you seem beset with the liveliest illness - it 11 that you rest here, and enjoy the benefices of our ministrations. But my question remains unanswered, Stephen. Why, rather than simply requesting admittance, did you endanger your health by snuffling about our forti-

ons in the chill night? Oh, my dear Stephen, no need for such histrionics\! I understand. You were ignorant ofourcustoms. Eminentlyrea- sonable. Your sorcerous employers are learned and wise, but they have grown distant from the Folk, and are occasionally remiss in matters col. It is well, perhaps, that we a forgiving people; in some quarters, such ignorance could go so far as to provoke unpleasantries intended as.. .let us say, “retributive.” But such intolerance is for werewolves, or bloody-handed usurp- ers. Since you obviously came to my fiefdom with only the best of intentions, seeking erudition with only the greatest good will, we would be honored to speak with you concerning the ways of our kind. Even more, we insist that YOU recipro- cate by telling US of Yourself, and Your masters, and the errand on which YOU came...and\~hould Your memory fail, Or illness still your tongue, rest assured that we have countless means of igniting the mind and spirit.

And so now we shall speak of many things - of the Old Country, and line, and Our ways, and most especially of YOU, dearest Stephen. Such leisurely discourse is, after all, an old CarPathian custom. We are a traditbn-bound folk YOU see, and abide by many Such Conventions. We wish YOU the best of health, that You may stay 10% with us and partake of them all.

EAST

By Celestyn, Chi& of Etrius, Childe of Tremere The Damned Children of Caine are many; peasants whisper frightfully of monstrous corpses tearing themselves from churchyards and crossroads to stalk darkened village lanes, and yet there are more among the uumpyr’s kind than the ignorant are aware. Mayhap it is best that mankind remain ignorant. Through the halls of the lords the monsters creep; through the villas of the merchants they steal; yea, even amid the apses of the Church they stalk, that they might partake in their own unholy communion; and now, through the inge- niousness of Goratrix and our Master, we walk among them. We of House Tremere are little loved, even among the Damned; the society of the unhallowed yet has its protocol, and it is not meet that any common villain should join their ranks. By our Master’s will, we alone wrested our dark gift from its rightful or wrongful bearers; and though all the manifold lines of the undead bear malice and rancor toward us, our deed inflicted particular injury upon two of their ancestral strains. The one is of little consequence, its children scattered and sire murdered; alas, we were not so thorough with the other, and for that oversight we and the world shall be forever plagued. The learned reader must forgive the dire and doleful tone of this work. I would wonder little if he should judge me ridden by the superstitions of the ignorant, with their talk of elves and goblins and demons; and yet I have walked among the shadows of the vales beyond the Elbe, in Sclavia, and I have met the veriest incarnate devils.

They call themselves the Tzimisce. Like bloated spiders, the Tzimisce have laired in the East since the nights following the Flood. The earth groans beneath their tread, and their subjects cower in terror from their evil stare. They are wicked and wise; their memory is long, and I think they will hate us forever. They are feared even among the Damned, and it is with these monsters, the embodiments of the word “vampyr,” that we must contend with if we wish to assert our place in the hierarchy of Hell. Verily, mighty Goratrix has set before us a task indeed; I am honored that he deems us so worthy of its execution.

It is sensible, methinks, to begin any dialogue concerning the Tzimisce with an overview of their land - their “Old Country”- which we have invaded and violated andravaged, and in deference to which they will not cease their aggressions. until all bearing the sobriquet “Tremere” lie bloodless and broken beneath the ancestral soil. They are nothing if not territorial, these so-named “Fiends”; no slight angers them so much as the violation of Domain if the Tzimisce are indeed vampires at all, or rather darkgenii of the soil, for they seem the veriest icons of this malignant land into which we have cast ourselves.

The learned reader may scoff at that last supposition: No material boundary separates one side of the Elbe from the other; no wall kept the Magyars from their devil’s errands; Teutons cross freely on this mission and that, and Rome of old marched into the dark forests bordering the Danube. But I remember when I walked, for the first time, into Transylvania and, though I was yet mortal, I felt overwhelmed with a palpable malaise. I felt as though, with my every breath, a miasma akin to the black fetor of the marshes entered my lungs. And now, though I breathe no more, I yet feel that the land reaches out invisibly to constrict me, like the wyrms that lair in the Scottish lochs. I,

The soil is old here, and spiteful, and saturated with the blood of eons. It was here, amid the crags and vales where drakes coil and rusalka beckon invitingly with dead hands, that House Tremere came, in defiance of the short-sighted among the Order. It was House Tremere who alone realized that the magic of the West was ebbing, quenched in the Blood of Christ; that only in the lands of the East would Hermetic masters have a chance to unearth that greatest of secrets, the philosopher’s stone of life eternal.

The Tzimisce unearthed that secret long ago, it seems. Their dead flesh is a veritable repository of vis; their blood, an elixir of blasphemous life. Indeed, such is the Fiends’ connec- tion to their ancestral holdings that they grow profoundly discomfited should they be forced to rest without immersing themselves in its soil. A Tzimisce can know peace only when lying deep in a grave, surrounded by the earth of the ancient homeland. I have watched captive Fiends writhe and moan in the night, their very bodies contorting as their unholy need consumed them.

ASTERS OF THE LAND

I am oft consulted for my knowledge regarding our foes, for I have had the privilege and horror of serving the House as an infiltrator and spy. Blessed as I am with certain aptitudes related to the channeling of blood-sorcery within my own body, I have developed rituals enabling me to exacerbate the

peculiar pungency unique to Tzimisce vitae. In this fashion I can occlude my lineage and thereby walk among the Fiends as one of them. Such a subterfuge would quickly prove transpar- ent in more peaceable times, but recent upheavals have disrupted the age-old “families” and territories, and so all manner ofrootless nomads walk the nights of the Old Country. Questions remain unasked, suspicions stay unvoiced, and it is by such fortune that I have been able to observe the Fiends from a peripheral (albeit too close for my own liking\! ) vantage point. My firsthand experiences have been much augmented by the testimonies of those Fiends whom we have had the fortune of taking captive and putting to the question. In particular, Ceoris’ dungeons imprison two, Yaroslav and Devana, apair of “mates,” or those who participate in the obscene blood- commingling rituals ubiquitous among the Fiends. They despise us, of course, and their “courtship” seems to have rendered them proof against the Bloodoath, but we have gleaned many nuggets of useful lore among the vitriol that they hiss and spit at us. I shamefully confess that I have stolen into their oubli- ettes at night, bearing small vials of blood, and fed it to the starving wretches, that they might be disposed to impart secrets to me. They will never trust me, of course, and will love me even less, but they seem to recognize my sympathetic stance and desire for peace between our two lines.. .or, at least, they are disposed to humor the bearer of food. Through my kindness I have established a rapport of sorts with the crea- tures, and have learned much.. .though methinks I would sleep better of days had they told me less\! CONCERNING THE FIENDS

They make no pretense of humanity, these night-things; in their veins, they say, human blood is transmuted to the mystic “dead water” of regional folk tales. This “dead water” makes them one with the gods and forever divorced from mortal cares.

This attitude manifests itself in the Tzimisce disposition toward those who provide them with food and fodder. They display little humility, the Tzimisce; not for them my own diurnal moans of guilt and horror over what I have become. The passage into undeath is no curse, no damnation, but an initiation into an ancient and terrible nobility. Of all the monsters haunting Sclavia’s nights, the Tzimisce are the masters; those who displease them, or trespass on the Domain, or cross their paths at inopportune times, seldom repeat their error. It is the noble’s right to exert authority over his lessers; such is God’s plan. Yet in the running of their estates and the dire punishments they devise for the mortal wretches who err ever so slightly, I can see only the hand of Satan.

Tzimisce landholders call themselves many things, though the term “voivode” seems to be most common. Typically, voivodes make their lairs in great fortresses overlaying mystic

sites of vis: These locales must be close enough to the holdings of men that food is plentiful, yet far enough to shroud their deeds in a cloak of superstition.

As I have mentioned, voivodes are profoundly territorial. The Tzimisce maintain elaborate and time-honored greeting customs, such that one who enters an estate with the voivode’s permission is lauded as if he were the voivode’s own childe, while one who dares to breach hospitality is mercilessly hunted, though the vengeance may take centuries.

I myself was entertained by one such potentate, Raiszko by name, in the early nights, when there was yet hope for a peace. At the bridge leading to the voivode’s domain, I was met by a troop of shuddersome things seemingly conjured from the lowest levels of Hell; the nightmare horde was led by Szercka, the voivode’s childe. This worthy greeted me most politely, intoning: “Welcome, honored guest\! A thousand welcomes\! Come in peace and go in tranquillity; neither imp nor devil shall assail thee while the House of Raiszko watches\! On the soil, on the blood, on the dead water, this I swear\!” I responded in something approximating kind, which seemed to please the envoy, at least insofar as one can discern aught from those cold masks the Fiends call faces.

In the construction of their castles, the Tzimisce are as advanced as anyone in the West; I care not what the empire’s envoys say of barbarous Sclavia. I have seen the great turrets towering against the night sky, until it seemed as though they would pierce the heavens; I have crawled amid mazes of dank catacombs expansive enough to swallow entire cities of men. Raiszko’s abode was no exception. Upon arrival at the manse, I was ushered over the bridge and into the presence of the great voivode himself. A full seven feet he stood, all garbed in finery of scarlet and ebon, surrounded by his childer, who were many (I later learned that this is a symbol of stature among the clan, for it means that prey is plentiful and easily obtained). The dining hall was lit by torches, and these were held in sconces crafted from curiously shaped skulls: Werewolves, the voivode somewhat proudly informed me, though I would wonder little if they were but the remains of murdered travelers, cunningly worked by the Tzimisce’s osseous arts.

A sound from above caught my notice; and there, sus- pended above the dining table by hooks pressed through their flesh, a dozen or so naked wretches writhed like worms on the line. Futilely they screamed for salvation - or they would have, had not their lips been stopped and shaped into minus- cule orifices resembling small pores. Like the holes of a flute, these organs transmuted the victims’ screams into soft piping, and thus was a melody of sorts played for us while we dined. During the course of the banquet, the vumpyrs would silently indicate from which part of which victim they desired their next course, and servitors walking amid the gathering would deftly press goads into the flesh indicated, then just as adroitly catch the shower of blood in a skull-crafted goblet.

BOOK TWO: TZIMISCE

Anon we retired to a lower hall, there to enjoy those I

pastimes here ... I with which the Fiends can write little of what amuse themselves. And I witnessed; I fear it shall forever stain my soul, though I live a thousand lifetimes of murder. There was torture, yes, and debauchery; but to call what I witnessed by any word that men use is to simultaneously elevate and debase their practices. What few understand about the Fiends is that their sports and arts are undertaken not merely to satisfy human needs for vengeance or cruelty, but rather to inculcate passions and excite sensations tran- scending the sort that living beings comprehend. The plunging of the soul into abysses of pain and horror is done not for its own sake, but as a means to “awaken the vampire in the corpse.”

I might add that, in the viewing and the hearing of the spectacles, the Fiends sipped from twitching, stuporous vessels and had been forced to ingest all manner of curious fungi gathered (so my host told me) from deep in the wilds, beside the banks of certain dark streams that fountained intermit- tently from beneath the soil. Of these vessels I declined to partake and was rewarded by a chorus of gently mocking chuckles from the monsters surrounding me.

I left Castle Raiszko well before sunrise, flanked by an honor guard of nightmares. The voivode himself accompanied me to the edge of the domain. “Methinks,” quoth the voivode, “that our parley, however pleasant, was of little use, and that one night we will face each other across a field of blood.”

I grunted noncommittally, then bowed and thanked my host for the evening’s sport. The voivode caught my gaze and held it, and then he said unto me: “I respect you, honorable Erasmus, for you are not so restless as others of your ilk; your roots run deep, and you know who you were, and are, and are not. I think you would have been loath to come so rudely against us. The ballads speak overmuch of quests and deeds; sometimes the greater part of wisdom lies in temperance and stability. A mouse is a mouse; there is no dishonor in being a ) have mouse, vengeance incurred nor with even my aught in respect, flight of pity from know the the that next cat. 1 time And shall we so, not meet.”

because temper you my 1 QF stant small Their We THE horror amount face powers FIENDS’ and formidable of blame), struggle are manifold, and foes, (for most which of that their Fiends House make existence who Tremere no survive mistake.

one bears of to con- no take the mantle of voivode have mastered a fair measure of Caine’s gifts. Most share with us the benefice of Second Sight (this ) ’

bears out my theory that the eldest among the line may have been taken from heathen shamans in the first nights of the world). As well, Tzimisce commonly display mastery over the beasts of fen and forest - again, a useful art, considering their choice of abodes and servitors.

But, of course, it is for their last and most unique gift that the Fiends are most feared. This art, that of shaping mortal clay as though it were its viscid namesake, has no analog among other vampiric strains. Devana (having learned through wicked subterfuge of my upbringing in the Church) has mockingly blasphemed that, as our Bible states that God molded Adam fromclay and Eve from his rib, can it not be concluded that the Tzimisce are in fact gods one and all?

I rebut (though not to her sneering adder-maskof aface\!) that Satan cannot create of his own but must take the Lord’s works and shape and distort them for his own purposes. This the Tzimisce do with abandon, and thus is their true nature revealed.

The Fiends have many peculiar customs relating to the Blood. While most vampyrs guard their precious vitae as though it were liquescent gold, Tzimisce partake in all manner of blood-mingling, blood-sharing and other prurient uses of vitae. Such customs serve to establish connections and solidify relationships among a voivode’s family group, serving as celebratory libations, expressions of mourning, artistic means of empathic sharing and expressions of heathen eroticism.

Three years ago, while posing as a nomadic Fiend recently uprooted by the turmoil in Hungary, I joined in the activities of a roving pack (this institution I shall discuss anon). I developed a rapport of sorts - nay, I confess it\! a fascination - with one Ajinav, a Fiend of uncertain lineage and even less certain gender. Yea, by such standards as our House yet seeks to preserve among ourselves, Ajinav was the veriest monster. And yet, I would look upon Ajinav under the moon, see the smooth flesh-tinted lunar hues and whorled with pronounced venous and arterial flows, and feel a decidedly cold sort of burning permeate my dead loins -an emotional phosphores- cence, if the reader will indulge the metaphor. I was lost to my senses, and though now I recall my actions with a most acute shame, at the time I felt possessed by an incubus, or the ghost of an incubus.

We would often leave the company of the pack and seek tangled groves in which we could attain that privacy so highly valued among Tzimisce. There, using a variety of highly specialized implements crafted from the cartilage of infants, Ajinav instructed me in the commingling arts of its sire’s line. I was taught the Kiss of Introduction and the Chalice of Osseous Delights, and I remember screaming uncontrollably in silver arrows of moonlight as Ajinav performed upon me the Conjunction of the Effervescent Pulse.

It was then, of course, that Ajinav knew: of my lineage and of my proximity to the Master and thereby to dread Caine. My senses returned to me, and so I drained Ajinav then, under a pallid moon, and scattered the ashes among the mushrooms and nightshade of the soil the Fiends love so.

At times, I fear Ajinav smiles within me still.

We are House Tremere, mightiest of magi. Alone among mortals have we wrested eternity’s elixir from its guardians. No man can withstand our Master; kings and bishopsdance a t our bidding. And yet, I say that were all the Fiends in the Old Country to rise against us as one, we would swiftly greet the dawn on impaling stakes.

Happily for us, that nightshall nevercome. ClanTzimisce is as fractious as it is frightful; our trespass is but the latest in a litany of grievances and vendettas which the rulers of the Old Country bear one against the other. For every Tzimisce who strikes against us, another uses the opportunity to wound his “clan-brother,’’ while the former’s attention lies with us. War among Tzimisce is yet another of their ancient and self-ennobled customs, and so, naturally, customs have arisen concerning it. Among the Fiends, Trials by War - armed aggression by one voivode against another - are events of great ritual and circumstance.

To declare war, the aggressor must surreptitiously stalk and slay one among the rival’s herd or servitors, on the rival’s land. (The rival is within her rights to destroy the trespasser at this time, should he be caught.) The aggressor must bear the body to his own fiefdom, whereupon he must flay the skin from the victim. On this hide he must formally inscribe his decla- ration ofwar, giving the rival time to prepare for the invasion. Of course, the Tzimisce are not much more prone to follow their own customs than are most Children of Caine (or of Seth, for that matter\!). I have personally borne witness to sudden upheavals of one voivode against another, with little concern for protocol. Such tactics may prove effective, but voivodes who routinely flout the time-honored customs com- monly incur the wrath of the clan as a whole. (Gorynich Myesyats - the elder whom Goratrix slew to brew the potion that catapulted us into undeath over a century ago - was widely known for such treacherous practices, and it is for this reason that his neighbors did not immediately throw their wrath against our House.)

Following a successful Trial by War, the victor assumes governance of the loser’s demesne, along with all herds and estates. Defeated voivodes generally receive the Amaranth, and Yaroslav’s hints bear out my observation that many such voivodes submit to this willingly, not wishing to bear the shame of landlessness. (Additionally, the defeated often levies a heavy curse as he gives up his vitae, enjoining all manner of frightful maledictions in hopes that the drinker will ever suffer ill luck, the land will “turn against him,” his blood will grow thin and prone to plague, etcetera.)

Most of the childer, of course, being under the yoke of the Oath as they are, perish during the Trial by War. Captives are commonly given to the victor’s childer, but it is not entirely unknown for survivors to escape into the wilds, there to lead treacherous, hardscrabble existences.

rr, In my wanderings, I have ohserved another custom, one stemming from the need to establish oneself while simulta- neously replenishing oneself after battle. It seems that when one voivode defeats another and thereby acquires the vanquished’s land, mortals residing on the land likewise become the victor’s property. This being the case, the victo- rious voivode, and his childer and armies, often descend on the newly acquired herds. There they enact a celebratory orgy of sorts, openly flaunting rheir nature before the terrified prey and laying waste to entire communities. This “blood feast” commonly lasts for an entire night, as whole villages of mortals are reduced to graveyards of bloodless corpses. A few mortals, though, are left alive, so that word of the new master might spread to all within the demesne.

Certain Tzimisce have escaped our House’s retribution to take up fugitive unlives in the wilds. Obeying their communal instincts even as they rue their exile, such outcasts band together in “packs”ofvarious numbers and organization. Feral and masterless, these outlaw bands roam the Old Country, pledging service to one voivode or another in exchange for food and shelter. When they cannot find service, of course, packs must make do in the werewolf-haunted wilds. Few stay to- gether, or survive, for long; those that do are dangerous companies indeed.

The peasants are terrified of such gatherings; should a village’s wisewomen inform the inhabitants of a pack’s prox- imity, those worthies will frantically bar their doors, hang all manner of religious paraphernalia and incant rituals both Christian and pagan in hopes that they will be spared.

Alas, such measures generally prove as futile as they do sincere. This I know well; I have “run with” various packs during my sojourn in the Old Country, and I have feasted with them as well, God help my soul.

Packs commonly indulge in the drinking of each other’s blood. This gesture is largely symbolic, reaffirming unity in the face of adversity and whatnot. But, as my own experience proves, it grows lonely in the wilds at night.. . . KQLDON

The Fiends are wise in the ways of magic. There are sorcerers atnong them whose mastery of the magic arts rivals our own. Tzimisce speak respectfully of these magic-workers, calling them koldun; at one time there were more of them, but few exist now. Most, I suspect, were consumed by the foul entities with whom they trafficked.

Koldun occasionally hold fiefdoms, but many more retreat to isolated towers and ruins in the wilds. There they practice their arts and occasionally tutor worthy neonates. A few have even been known to wander into the West in search of lore,

though I know little enough of their doings; we are not yet so friendly with the other Children of Caine that we may ask of strangers among them\!

Not surprisingly, the sorcery of the koldun makes use of all manner of rituals for conjuring and binding demons, practices long forbidden in our own Order. Over the centuries, they have become intimately familiar with all the thousands of horrid devils haunting this land and invoke them against their foes on moonless nights.

1 myself did battle with a mighty koldun in the first nights of the war. Her magic was strong, but undisciplined: My superior skill proved her undoing, and she was borne away shrieking by the very entities she had summoned to aid her.

ETAMORPHOSISTS

The Fiends are nothing if not profane; most, and espe- cially those of elder blood, scoff at the idea of divine salvation. And yet even among the Fiends there are priests of a sort. The word used to describe them is a vulgar Eastern polyglot, and so I translate it as “Metamorphosist.”

These “Metamorphosists,” based on my observations and the descriptions of my unwilling guest, are an itinerant order of mendicants. They keep no fiefs, but wander from demesne to demesne as they please. Other Tzimisce treat Metamorphosists with the utmost hospitality, for the Metamorphosists are the masters of the clan’s dark erudition and forbidden lore.

Their philosophy is their own and oblique to the point of indecipherability, yet it bears parallels to the more abstruse Classical and Gnostic works. Metamorphosists evidently con- sider the vampiric state itself a sort of ephemeral purgatory between the “base state” of human existence (which in Metamorphosists’ eyes is the gravest Hell) and an unimagin- able “higher” state. They spend their existences performing various revolting and highly painful rituals (of which I re- ceived a sample at Raiszko’s abode) or questing the world, seeking to understand their nature and, thereby, transcend it. So then, it is not enough for a Metamorphosist to have a Beast; she must disport with it, nourish it and fan it greater still.

Devana often speaks of Metamorphosists paying homage to “demons” or “entities”; this, however, would seem to contradict the conceit that Metamorphosists seek to shape themselves into their own inner divinity, not merely to worship already established powers. In truth, I know not; even Ajinav would tell me little of what transpired in the Metamorphosists’ subterranean vaults.

Certain tales depict a sort of ancestor-worship, in which certain legendary ancients among the line (who seem to be the subjects of awestruck dread by other Fiends) are upheld as pioneers along the path to “enlightenment.” Obviously, those Cainites who fear the wrath of their elders would do well to scrutinize the practices of the Metamorphosists; taken to its logical conclusion, such a philosophy would involve supplant- ing the Antediluvians themselves.

The Metamorphosists, so I am told, flock to certain unholy sites deep in the wilds on moonless nights. On many of the most ancient sites, the Fiends have built curious temples, of a style predating even the earliest tribal structures. Local villagers call these spots “Black Churches,” and they scrupu- lously avoid them.

As I have implied, secular Fiends know little of the Metamorphosists’ ways, treating them as a sort of adjunct to the koldun. Still, they are ubiquitous in the Old Country, acting as a sort of cultural glue among the fractious clan. THE GREAT WAR

For every Tzimisce bent on some mysterious end or other, of course, there are three whose aims are all too clear: the utter annihilation of House Tremere. They come by night, mus- tered from all sides like great swarms of bats, and the villagers in these parts know well to bar their doors.

They have enlisted (or more likely, cowed) Transylvania’s other vampyrs to assist them, so that oft one may hear the eerie hunting call of the Gangrel or discover a loathsome Nosferatu ensconced amid one’s defenses.

The majority of their soldiers, though, are abominations constructed from human wretches. Tzimisce at war have been known to depopulate entire villages, taking the inhabitants into their dungeons and twisting them into hideous monsters, shapeless lumps of fang, talon and gristle. And once the humans’ bodies are no more, the Fiends likewise destroy their creations’ souls, inflaming their blood against us and sending them to besiege our chantries in noxious waves.

Occasionally, in the darkest hours, one hears a distant crack as trees splinter like kindling. One sees dread descend on even the ghoul-soldiers’ nigh-unrecognizable countenances. And then that thing which Devana fearfully refers to as “vozhd” roars gargantuan and ravenous from the deep forests, often towering above the trees themselves, flailing this way and that with fists the size of millstones, greedily shoving enemy and ally alike into any of a dozen befanged maws. THE REVENANTS

The Fiends grip the noble houses with a clutch akin to that of a great octopus, and in this endeavor they make great use of certain servitor creatures, which they dub “revenants.” These revenants are curious creatures. Originally human, they have been transformed through blasphemous rituals and blood-mingling into creatures akin to our own ghouls. Al- though wholly evil and given to many of the practices of the vampire, revenants may yet go abroad by day, and they may even breed with humans and their own kind; this last noxious act has left vast numbers of them bearing peculiar disfigure- ments, a sure sign of God’s wrath.

Over the centuries, the creatures have burrowed them- selves deep into the lines of the nobles, shrouding themselves in the annals of war and marriage and flesh and generations. Families as far afield as Constantinople and Kiev bear the

4 creatures’ taint, and I would be little surmised if thev had not already worked their way into the heart of the empire. Goratrix elicited the information that one strain has even infiltrated the Byzantine Church, though of these, Devana and Yaroslav claim little knowledge, as the family in question serves the Draconian Tzimisce.

In any event, once ensconced within a line, revenants make all manner of mischief, subverting the rest of the family into abhorrent practices pleasing to themselves and their masters. They snare the ruling families in chains of vice and fear, and in so doing enslave them vicariously to the Fiends, who are the revenants’ own masters. Because they do not fear the sun, they act as the Fiends’ eyes and fists in the daylight world, enforcing Tzimisce edicts through their own super- natural arts - which, though lesser than those of their masters’, more than suffice to inspire fear in the kine. Then, too, because many Tzimisce are themselves taken from the revenant families, they often bear a familial resemblance to their slaves, and this (so says Devana) makes it easier for a Fiend to substitute himself through the use of flesh-shaping arts. Goratrix and the Master seem much intrigued by these creatures of late; I have seen them in the laboratories during the gray hours before the dawn, examining revenant captives with fire and blade. Goratrix has even slyly hinted that perhaps our House could breed revenant strains of our own, fighting blood with blood, so to speak, and thereby gain for ourselves a race of diurnal proxies.

Prague, the Magic City: Well I remember my apprentice- ship there, in days less dreadful, when I could yet feel the sun’s kiss. To walk amid its towers and mazy lanes is to feel the whispered passage of potent forces unseen yet tangible.

And yet even here, in one of the Order’s great strong- holds, the Fiends lurk. For the Tzimisce, Prague serves as their frontier against the encroaching West; here the Metamorphosists walk, that they might remain vigilant against the arrival of marauding Cainites from the empire.

Devana even hints, slyly and mockingly, that certain members among that great Bohemian dynasty named Premysl have fallen under the night’s influence. I had oft heard lurid tales of strange rituals and orgies among the Premysl line, but I had largely dismissed them as imperialist propaganda meant to counter the influence of a growing power. Could there indeed be truth to the tales?

Rumors abound that Bohemia may gain autonomy within a

the year; truly, the empire’s eastern flank has established no small amount of influence for itself. Should a faction among the Fiends take Prague, the invaders might well find them- selves nights the might victims extend ere to long, the lands and of the the Old French.. Country’s . .

bloody

To the east, pagan Lithuania defies the Teutons’ hordes. Here many Fiends yet follow the ancient ways of the clan. These hoary vampires, so Yaroslav implies, scorn their south- ern brethren, for the mist-shrouded pines and marshes in which they dwell never knew the yoke of Rome.

The Balts are most fearful of them; they worship the Fiends as gods, or more likely, demons, plying them with all manner of tribute and sacrifice. Great temples they build for them in the forests, or on lone isles in the midst of bogs and rivers. Sacrifices are driven into the temple gates, and then the Balts leave in haste, for the sounds said to emanate from the darkened edifices are enough to blanch the face of the fiercest warrior.

These Fiends wish no great cities, no advancements of learning; they are content to exist as they have for millennia. Each Fiend establishes a wilderness domain, dominating the local settlements and tribes, who speak grimly of the “Blood- Gods of the Forest” or other such superstition. They bide their time in accordance with the rhythms of the night and the eternal seasons; the rise and fall of tribes, domains and king- doms are of niggling import to them.

The Fiends of Lithuania are renowned for their wisdom; other Tzimisce often send their childer into the northlands in search of some bit of forgotten lore. These childer are often asked to prove their worth as Tzimisce by undertaking a series of grueling tests and “games.” Yaroslav speaks little of what happens to neonates who fail to please the ancients, though I can guess. Thus has it been since the dawn of time.

But even these ancients may soon learn the ways of change. The Knights Teuton have undertaken crusades into these lands, which will doubtless learn the ways of fire and fear. Already I hear tell of struggles between advance scouts and “dreadful corpse-demons”; methinks the pagan lands will fall and their guardians with them. BYZANTPUM

Yea, even in mighty Constantinople the Fiends walk, though they are of a different breed than their cousins to the north. They are most civilized, these Tzimisce; they name themselves Draconians, after their alleged founder. They are a taciturn sort, but I have heard tell of the occasional Draco- nian wandering into the West, on some nameless errand or other. But, the New Rome and its armies have ever been the Carpathian Fiends’ nemesis, and ever have they longed to see the city in flames. This has in turn led to great strife between the two lines: the one whose existence depends on the city, the other who seeks only to destroy it.

LIBELLUS SANGUINIS 1

\- ITE

\_\_ - \_ -‘HE WORT )Id Fiend is in truth t xtunistically seized tl

VFILL, LllF lFllu uycluvugclutches the Balt-lands still. He is 01

arsh northern winters, Byelobog conceals flakes of his ski e stuff adrift over villages. T h e skin coats everything in his

\- -

Whether the schism has existed since time’s beginning or happened after the Draconians’ migration, I do not know. Whatever the answer, the Fiends of the Carpathians hate their southern kin with a virulence normally reserved for us. I suspect that the violence which has gripped several Ortho- dox monasteries in Macedonia may well have deeper, darker roots. I care little, so long as it diverts our enemies’ eyes from us.

And that thought is perhaps the proper one on which to end this missive. Verily, we are lost children in astrange realm. Our foes loom on all sides, in a thousand frightful shapes;

I \\ perilous the road ahead, yet through the will of our Master we are committed, and there is no road back, save only darkest perdition.

We are in the monster’s lair, and though we have bearded him, the battle has only begun. The Tzimisce is a thousand- headed hydra: Although the beast itself writhes and coils in blind, idiot spasms, it is huge, and monstrous, and full ofbaleful venom. The path to power will be a hard and treacherous one. Remember you always that the mightiest torrent will break and flow around a rock. Stand firm: Heed your elders and your regents, and above all, the will of the Master, that one night we supplant the Tzimisce as lords of the Damned.

Yours in the Blood of the Murderer, Celestyn, House Trernere

At BOOK TWO: TZIMISCE 1

Tzimisce have few friends. The newly spawned Tremere thirst to destroy them; Shadow Lords battle them viciously for territory. They even feud incessantly with each other. This tumultuous existence, coupled with the clan’s long-standing occupation of its ancestral soil, has fostered many unique customs. Although currently at a disadvantage, the Fiends are still the masters of the East. THE EMBRACE

Fiends frequently plan their Embraces meticulously. Tzimisce prefer to Embrace from their stock of revenant families - each family having been selected for “desirable” qualities and carefully tended over the intervening centuries. Creating childer from revenants offers a number of advane tages: The ghouls are already inured to long life and Supernatural power, and those who survived childhood have grown most accustomed to obedience, cruelty and loyalty.

The clan’s internecine and external struggles demand \~ I 1 ’ immediate retaliation, however. Although most Fiends would prefer simply to deploy legions of ghouls, sometimes a situa- tion calls for the more diverse talents available only to vampyrs. In such cases, the sire, not wanting to endure the childe’s pathetic human sentiments, “gifts” the childe with a grisly rite of passage. The childe is Embraced, then buried “alive” in the earth of a graveyard or barrow (to which the childe often mystically bonds). To emerge as vampyr, the childe must dig her way up and out, through a stew of earth, worms and corpses. Some weaker childer do not manage to dig their way back out; these weaklings are contemptuously left to rot in eternal torpor. Those childer who do worm their way from the earth generally undergo profound emotional trauma - having “died” and returned from the “afterworld,” the childer are prepared to assume the mindset of undead preda- tors. This can prove profoundly distressing to childer who belonged to the Church in life, but as far as the Fiends are )

concerned, such a shattering of faith is all the better.

The Old Country is regrettably prone to invasions and upheavals of various sorts. Romans, Huns, Avars, Magyars and other barbarians have appeared to trouble the inhabitants. Shadow Lords prowl the mountains and vales, and the untracked forests are home to things stranger still. And so, since time immemorial, the test of a Fiend’s mettle has been her ability to seize and hold land.

Landholding Tzimisce commonly take the title “voivode,” though other regional titles (zhupan, margrave) are used in appropriate areas. In many ways, a voiwode acts as any other vampiric ruler does: He dictates hunting grounds, arbitrates disputes, and otherwise oversees the affairs of the dark. In practice, though, voivodes are much more exclusive about their domains, and suffer few Cainites other than their own childer to dwell within.

Also, while the establishment of a power base is a long- standing Tzimisce custom, the base itself is merely a means to the ends of personal security and supernatural might. Regret- tably, the voivode gives little thought to his subjects’ welfare, save that they are sufficiently nourished and populous to be fed from at will.

On the other hand, even the cruelest voivode must miti- gate his pleasure with an iota of pragmatism. Stories have wafted from the East - tales of fire-eyed voivodes angrily defending their subjects from werewolves or Teuton Ventrue. This is done not out of concern for the subjects’ welfare, but as a matter of pride: The subjects are the voivode’s to abuse, and he shall suffer no others to do likewise.

The first step in becoming a voivode is the construction of an impregnable fortress. Other Cainites whisper fearfully of the vast Tzimisce manses, spiring above the darksome forests and crags like stone dragons. Some voivodes take pride in

constructing just such obvious, menacing citadels. Others prefer to use magic or simple topography to construct hidden lairs - labyrinths and the like - so that the peasants know the master of the domain only as an evil, invisible malignancy. The first century of dominion is commonly spent in the cultivation of terror. Children are taken from their parents’ cottages and returned as bloodless corpses or gibbering freaks; a rebellious headman goes to sleep and at cockcrow wakes up next to the empty skin of his wife; an overly intrepid forester disappears, and the villagers discover.. .traces at various sites and intervals over the next year. However, a Fiend must be careful not to overdo things; constant massacres lead the inhabitants to leave, and not even a Tzimisce and all her retainers can stop an entire village’s wholesale migration.

Once the mortals have been pacified and bullied, the next step is to mold the domain into whatever will best serve the uoivode’s interest. Koldun and other sorcerous types seek merely to establish a secure herd, while Fiends of more political inclination take a more active hand-or talon, as the case may be - in the governance of their fiefdom. In many cases, this involves indoctrinating the mortal populace into serving as weapons against the uoivode’s rivals.

The most effective form of rule is to insinuate one’s minions into the mortal power structure. Revenant families are the most advanced products of this tactic, but many mortal

families have also fallenunder the intoxicatingspell ofTzimisce vitae. Over the centuries, these families - influenced by the nocturnal visitations of the vampyrs - become more and more depraved, more and more tyrannical, more and more twisted. As decade blends into decade, individual incidents are woven into the cloth of legend, and it becomes impossible to distin- guish the atrocities of the wampyr from those of his servitors. Some Tzimisce exacerbate this process, fleshcrafting them- selves to resemble the mortal lord - or fleshcrafting the lord

to resemble the vampire. Tales of “devil twins” haunting crossroads have survived in the Old Country to this night. This, of course, serves to direct priestly aggression against the mortal pawns, leaving the vampire unscathed.

In certain sheltered areas (Lithuania, isolated mountain tracts), Tzimisce rule overtly. The vampyr who utilizes this tactic must be strong indeed, fearful of neither Shadow Lords nor rival voivodes and sufficiently dreaded that his flock would sooner stay and suffer than risk the reprisal of a failed escape. He may use fleshcrafted doubles when necessary (dealing wlth mortal rulers, misleading clergy, etc.), but the peasants are well aware to whom they answer. In such places, the subjects often deliberately offer up sacrifices during appropriate holidays, preferring to lose a few loved ones per season than suffer the vampire’s greater wrath.

TWES iuch as thev might wisn otnenvise, tne I ZI e only wumpyrs native to their ancestral soi

,and a few lines of M luring the past cen

)m. Most no\] od Oath to tl

o take the form of agreements between e lord/vaaal relationships. Naturally, the

Tzimisce are familial creatures. Many spent their breath- ing years as scions of the revenant families, and Tzimisce tradition holds the creation and maintenance of a family in high regard. Indeed, the greatest work of Tzimisce art, the fleshcraft sculpture/play Octavo of the mad voivode Czernisko, depicts its characters as collectives, using a highly disturbing point of view to do so.

Tzimisce create childer for the same reasons that other Cainites do: on whims, as useful extensions of the sire, to satisfy eruptions of atavistic lust. Childer are organized into families, with the sire as the patriarch/matriarch on whom everything centers. To enforce this filial devotion, most childer are forced to take the Blood Oath. Using the ritual The Inmost Tug (see p. 62), certain powerful voivodes can even manipulate Blood Oaths, shaping them into desired emotions according to whim. Competition among childer is understandably rife. Tzimisce neonates, all bound to the sire through the Blood Oath, struggle ceaselessly among themselves for the voiwock’s favor. The Blood Oath has also led to one troublesome sociological phenomenon among the Fiends, one that cur- rently cripples them in their war against the Tremere. Because Tzimisce childer are sworn to their sires, any slight or injury inflicted on the sire, no matter how deserved, pains the childer

just as greatly as if they were mortal. The childer swear vengeance on the transgressor and his entire brood, and these feuds commonly continue even after one instigator or the other meets Final Death. And thus, the Old Country is wracked with ancient vendettas, as Fiends vie against each other based on an injustice one vampyr’s sire’s sire’s sire is reputed to have inflicted on an enemy vampyr’s sire’s sire’s sire millennia ago. THE RITE OF RELEASE

Although Tzimisce are hierarchical creatures, they are proud creatures as well. A Fiend who serves her voivode for centuries in a military, scholarly or otherwise functional capacity may develop an uncomfortable measure of self- esteem. The wise voivode, recognizing this trait, uses it to her advantage.

Such worthy childer may, at the ruling voivode’s whim, be subjected to the Rite of Release. This ritual frees the childe from the voiuode’s rule, allowing her to establish a fiefdom and childer of her own. Such an act serves three functions: It enables a voivode to establish a proxy fiefdom in a nearby realm, reduces competition for food and affection within her own fiefdom, and eliminates a potential impediment before resentment can gnaw away at the emotions engendered by the Oath. The childe is called before the woivode, her accomplish- ments and character are praised, and she is asked if she would have her freedom. If, despite the pull of the Blood Oath, she answers affirmatively (succeeds in a Willpower roll, difficulty 9), the voivode pronounces a mystic blessing over her: “Then go, and may Moist Mother Earth mark the new dragon’s passage.’’ Naturally, a celebratory feast follows the climax of the ritual.

At this point, the childe may leave the company of the voivode and make her own way in the world. The Blood Oath is not broken, but the acquiescence of the voivode enables the childe to leave his side and establish her own domain. Gener- ally, the childe is sent to establish a fiefdom in an area the voivode would like to see subjugated or pacified. In such a way does the wise Fiend establish a dynasty of loyal vassals guard- ing key positions, like a barbed spiderweb throughout the Old Country.

The Ventrue and Lasombra, it would seem, are reborn to rule. Both clans have potent Disciplines enabling influence over or direct control of mortals. By contrast, the Tzimisce lack such straightforward methods of manipulation. Although many voivodes gain skill in Dominate and Presence over the centuries, the clan as a whole lacks such aptitudes. One might thus surmise that the voivodes are correspondingly less capable of governing their fiefdoms or ensuring their puppets’ subser- vience than are their southern and western cousins.

Such a supposition would be a grievous and potentially lethal error. If anything, Fiends are among the most territorial and possessive of all Cainites, and nothing matters more to them than security of the home. Over the centuries, Fiends have developed many techniques for ensuring the stability of their rule. Tzimisce do not need artificial means of turning their subjects into quivering wrecks, and when they command, they do not depend on mystical reinforcement to ensure obedience.

Some might call the Fiends’ methods of negative rein- forcement monstrous; Tzimisce would counter that they live in an untamed and violent frontier, and harsh means are necessary to guard their domains against marauding Lupines, mortals and their own kind.

Many Tzimisce terror tactics are ubiquitous among mor- tals, having been employed since the nights of biblical tyrants. Certainly, such brutalities as collective punishment and pub- lic torture are as effective in the hands of the living as they are in the talons of the undead. But Tzimisce have developed cunning methods of using their vampiric arts to guard against insurrection - or at least to punish it.

Tzimisce are masters of Auspex, and this Discipline they use to terrifying effect. Voivodes routinely stand atop the battlements of their fortresses, listening to the words the night wind brings as it wafts up from the villages below. The faintest mutters of rebellion can reach the ears of a Fiend using Heightened Senses, who thereupon devises a poetic and hideous end for the would-be rebel. Obviously, the higher powers such as Soulsight, Steal Secrets and Anima Walk also prove useful in exposing recalcitrant subjects, until finally, those governed grow too terror-dulled to even think of trea- son. Generally speaking, however, a voivode would not lower herself to walk among mortal villagers, save as a predator. But voivodes routinely create childer whose duties include pre- cisely such Auspex-enhanced surveillance. These canny spies slip from the dom by night, creep into the mortals’ lairs and employ Auspex powers to evaluate the prey’s moods. As mortals’ deepest resentments are “magically” unearthed and punished before they can even be acted on, the populace grows too fearful even to think of revolt.

Other Tzimisce Disciplines likewise serve useful func- tions in maintaining rulership. Besides its obvious value as a punitive measure, Vicissitude allows the voivode or her childer to walk among the mortals in any number of guises. Even if a practitioner is not sufficiently skilled to duplicate another, h e may still change himself into someone other than the dread uampyr on the hill. Mortals are wise to distrust strangers in the East. Provided a Tzimisce has a high Via score and can afford to miss a day or two of rest, Animalism allows auxiliary espionage capabilities. Through the eyes of a cat, hound or cock, the Fiend can spy on a village without leaving his lair - though certain wisewomen have grown uncomfortably adept at

1

discerning if a beast possesses “the evil eye.” On a baser level, Cowing the Beast proves exceedingly useful at numbing unruly mortals, stripping them of courage and filling them with apprehension.

Then, too, Tzimisce tend to be more openly predatory than many other vampires. In practical terms, this means they replenish their Blood Pools more often, which in turn gives them fewer qualms about spending Blood Points to enhance Physical Attributes. Although Fiends may not specialize in Physical Disciplines per se, a Tzimisce who has spent 10 or more Blood Points to raise Attributes is capable of doing all manner of gruesome things to a victim- and then replenish- ing herself from the victim’s family.

The greatest weapon, though, is the Tzimisce power over the Blood Oath. Voiwodes who have studied alchemy or Koldunic Sorcery often find ways of extending the chains of mystic servitude through entire family lines. Generation after generation of peasants, lords, and even clergy dutifully serve the woiwode on the hill. The greatest and most useful of these families are the revenant lines - but there are many, many others, sprouting through the Old Country like poisonous weeds. Provided the proper pawns are in place, a Fiend may instigate a violent purge of her fiefdom without ever stirring from her crypt.

Skeptics, noting the Old Country’s predilection for inva- sion, might scoff at the Fiends’ vaunted might. Such doubters should remember that Tzimisce are primarily concerned with the supernal, and that the human spark burns much dimmer in them than inmost othervampires. What difference, Tzimisce reckon, whether the ants scurrying through a lion’s den are red or black? Secure in her dwelling, a Fiend views “conquerors” with a jaded eye, scrutinizing who among the invaders may prove useful in future struggles with rival woivodes or werewolves. As the conquerors levy tribute and solidify their power, the Tzimisce stealthily deploys her minions among their ranks, snatching a few key victims and substituting fleshcrafted doppelgangers. And should any among the newcomers actu- ally ignore their victims’ “superstitions” and turn an avaricious gaze toward the old castle on the hill - well, a few well- chosen, well-placed examples quickly hammer the lesson home to even the most impolite intruder. And so, the miasma of fear envelops the invaders; within a few short generations the conquerors and the conquered wear the same invisible yoke and so are indistinguishable.

Outside the system of woiwodes and vassals, the arcane Metamorphosist sect walks the wilds in search of its abstract goals. Although those unfamiliar with Tzimisce culture often think of Metamorphosists as the clan’s priests, the sect has little use for either the God of Christendom or the antiquated deities worshipped by many Tzimisce elders. Metamorphosists, instead, seek to make themselves into godlike beings, or to attune themselves to universal forces.

Metamorphosists’ theories bear similarities to Gnostic thought: Through knowledge - of oneself, of one’s capabili- ties, and above all of one’s Blood - one sloughs off the fleshly chains of life and the spiritual shackles of death, transcending both states. Cainites, as undead, have already taken the first step of balancing themselves between these polar extremes of existence. It now remains for Metamorphosists to refine the vampiric state to its utmost potential, and in so doing become divine. Many Metamorphosists even scoff at the entire notion of a vampiric “father” and “mother” (Caine and Lilith), considering it superstitious pablum.

Metamorphosists prefer to congregate on sites of strong wis; here they let the arcane energies permeate their bodies as they send themselves into various trance states, as well as into extremes of starvation and satiation. Some Metamorphosists find revelation in the act of wandering; these vagabonds often find themselves drawn into the West and the company of other Children of Caine. Such coteries are typically short- lived - the abstract goals of Metamorphosists hold little interest for their rapacious brethren.

Not all Tzimisce are so fortunate as to have holdings. There is only so much land to go around; then, too, increasing numbers of Fiends have lost ancestral holdings to the depreda- tions of the Shadow Lords and the usurpation of the Tremere. Seeking protection from the night’s other denizens, dis- placed Tzimisce band together in units called packs. Hunting together, feeding together and even (in opposition to normal custom) resting together, a pack of Fiends is a cohesive and dangerous unit. Packs commonly follow the strongest leader with little quarrel, though there is a custom whereby rivalsmay duel for leadership.

These packs live as bandits and predators in the wilds, doing what they must to survive. Although the struggle for food consumes much of these wretches’ existence, the mighti- est of these packs hire themselves out as mercenaries and artisans. Certain packs have left the Old Country, selling their services in the West; Cainite powers, having long heard tales of the flesh-shapers’ erudition and arcane skills, eagerly seek their services, though in many cases the Tzimisce find ways to take advantage of the “bargain.” KOLDUN

In the old nights, the term “koldun” referred exclusively to those Fiends who practiced the Discipline of Koldunic Sorcery. These nights, however, the term has taken on a new meaning. Certain Fiends, displaced from their ancestral lands, have traveled into the West, selling their skills as advisors and magicians to those Cainites likewise distrustful of the Tremere. Such “kolduns” do not necessarily practice Koldunic Sorcery; the Vicissitude Discipline is exotic enough to vam- pires of the West, and Tzimisce have long held a reputation of (albeit vicious) wisdom. More than one Western prince has I LIBELLUS SANGUINIS 1

gained victory through the stratagems of a cunning and ruthless Tzimisce vizier. The Lasombra, in particular, find the Fiends’ tactical minds to their liking, and certain elders among the Magisters have thought about approaching the Tzimisce as a whole, with the aim of cultivating a longer-term relation- ship.. . . Even the mightiest vampyr must retreat to her haven come cockcrow, but Tzimisce care little for such trifling setbacks. The wise voivode maintains her domain with legions of servitors, many of whom are shaped through Vicissitude into the embodiments of their master’s desires - or her subjects’ nightmares.

Other clans use ghouls as daylight servitors and minions. The Tzimisce, however, have refined this practice to its highest form, creating “families” of ghouls whose powers are hereditary. These ghouls, known as “revenants,’) are used as infiltrators, warriors, and breeding stock for new uampyrs. Many Tzimisce spent their childhoods among these freakish

families, whose practices include blasphemy, perversion and cannibalism. Such experiences prepare a childe well for exist- ence among the undead.

Revenants differ from normal ghouls in two respects. First, each revenant’s body manufactures a weaker vintage of vampire vitae, effectively giving the revenant 10 Blood Points. Second, each revenant clan possesses hereditary Disciplines, which are learned and used as though the revenants were vampires of an appropriate clan.

There are several major strains of revenants (presented below), as well as a host of minor lines, such as the Rustovitches and Ruthvenski. For more information on revenants, see the Storytellers Handbook to the Sabbat and Ghouls: Fatal Addiction. BRAT WITCH

( The bestial Bratovitch are the Tzimisce’s shock troops. They breed and keep the Fiends’hellhounds, and there is little difference between them and their charges. Bratovitches tend to live in isolated compounds, emerging only to make war or capture mates.

standards of the Tzimisce. Constantly at war with their neigh-

(

Bratovitch-runfiefdoms tend to be miserable, even by the (

Family Disciplines: Animalism, Potence, Vicissitude Weakness: Bratovitches are infamous for savagery. They frenzy as if they possessed the Brujah clan weakness.

Destiny: The Bratovitch family survives into the modern era. For more information on the Bratovitch, see the Story- tellers Handbook to the Sabbat andGhouls: Fatal Addiction. GRIMALDI

The family Grimaldi is the least populated and most recently created revenant family -but this is acceptable to its members, who are used to this position in the scheme of things. Never able to compete directly with such luminaries as the di Medici or Giovanni families, the Grimaldi has culti- vated instead a remarkable adaptability, shifting allegiances wherever it is most advantageous. Serving first one major merchant house, then another, the Grimaldis were wealthy enough to be comfortable, yet never so successful that others viewed them as a threat.

This adaptability proved to be crucial to the family’s survival. Sent to Bohemia to open relations in the growing city of Prague, certain Grimaldi merchants instead found them- selves in a devil’s bargain with Bohemian uoiuodes. Seeking pawns to deploy within the Holy Roman Empire, these voioodes transformed a few Grimaldi patriarchs into revenants, who quickly and bloodily tookover the family, spreading their seed through the surviving members. Now the Grimaldis serve as the Fiends’ distant hands - and, when necessary, fists. Family Disciplines: Celerity, Dominate, Fortitude Weakness: The Grimaldi is a recently created family, and Grimaldi vitae is tepid in comparison to that of other revenants. Grimaldis have only eight Blood Points rather than the usual 10.

Destiny: During the Renaissance, the Grimaldis insinu- ate themselves into the growing bourgeois class. Becoming the Sabbat’s “deep cover” agents, the Grimaldis survive to this night as they always have-unobtrusively. For more informa- ) tion Sabbat on and the Grimaldis, Ghouls: Fatal see the Addiction.

Storytellers Handbook to the

THE OBERTUS (THE HIDDEN)

This mysterious sect of revenants serves the Draconian Tzimisce of Byzantium, serving as clerics and researchers for that religion-obsessed line. Obertus commonly work in mon- asteries and libraries, unearthing and cataloging all manner of blasphemous secrets.

Family Disciplines: Auspex, Obfuscate, Vicissitude Weakness: Members of the Obertus become obsessed with secrets easily. This Obsession is treated as a Derange- ment, with a focus on one particular sort of knowledge.

Destiny: The Obertus join the Sabbat as scholars and researchers; they survive to the modem era. For more informa- tion on the Obertus, see the Storytellers Handbook to the Sabbat and Ghouls: Fatal Addiction.

LIBELLUS SANGUINIS P

If the Bratovitches are the Tzimisce’s dogs of war, the Szantoviches are the clan’s feline infiltrators into rival courts. This depraved family breeds its members for allure and charm, then sets them loose into unsuspecting noble society. The ghouls’ unearthly attractiveness (courtesy of Presence and Vicissitude) quickly wins them mates, who are just as quickly disposed of and their estates appropriated. Such practices have already made the Szantoviches exceedingly wealthy and influ- ential; Szantovich revenants have married into the Premysl dynasty in Bohemia and the Piast dynasty in Poland. Indeed, certain Fiends have begun to wonder whether the Szantovich has exceeded its desired scope.. . .

Family Disciplines: Auspex, Presence, Vicissitude Weakness: The Szantovich are easily addicted to plea- sure. After undergoing a pleasurable experience (a particularly satisfying sexual encounter, a well-cooked and tender young babe, etc.), the revenant must make a Willpower roll or become addicted to the vice.

Destiny: During the tumult of the sect wars, the Szantovich are forced underground. They resurface in the 1700s, having Anglicized their surname to Zantosa. For more information on the Zantosa, see the Storytellers Handbook to the Sabbat and Ghouls: Fatal Addiction. VLASZY

Bred from a hardy mixture of Slavs and Magyars, the Vlaszy are the Tzimisce’s cavaliers and kingmakers. The family is centered in Hungary but has spread through the Old Coun- try, dwelling in border fortresses along the most turbulent frontiers. Vlaszy are skilled horsemen, mighty in war and adept in statesmanship; many Fiends prefer them to the Bratovitches, though Vlaszy often display an uncomfortable measure of independence.

As the story goes, the Vlaszy willingly entered into the Fiends’ service in order to repay a great favor which the clan performed for the family. The nature of the debt is unknown, except to the eldest revenants, but it is reputedly this obliga- tion, rather than fear or submissiveness, that keeps the Vlaszy in service. This is borne out by the Vlaszy’s behavior; they are an honorable line, having little love for their condition or the acts they must perform to sustain it.

Family Disciplines: Animalism, Potence, Presence Weakness: The Vlaszy do not like the Tzimisce but have taken an ancestral oath to serve. All Vlaszy willingly under- take a Blood Oath to a Fiend upon their passage to adolescence. Destiny: After the collapse of the Tzimisce clan during the Anarch Revolt, the Vlaszy have the misfortune to end up on the side of the elders. With their characteristic honor, the Vlaszy battle Velya, Lugoj, Vykos and the rest of the clan’s rebellious childer, dying to a man in the process.

KREVCHESKB

Like a maggot, the Krevcheski family has wormed its way through the noble houses of Eastern Europe. They are a scholarly line, little interested in politics except to advance the family’s access to the learning of the ancients. Krevcheski maintain small, but heavily fortified, manses; these estates house expansive libraries containing Classical works and the Krevcheski’s own innovations.

The Krevcheski have a fascination with clockworks and mechanisms of various sorts. Krevcheski artifice has provided the Fiends with elaborate siege engines to resist their enemies’ advances, as well as even more elaborate mechanisms to entertain those enemies following their capture. It is these latter devices that are the Krevcheski’s particular joy, and Krevcheski commonly impose harsh sentences on subjects merely to have fodder for some new invention.

Family Disciplines: Auspex, Dominate Weakness: Krevcheski are distrusted by the Tzimisce, and thus, have only learned two family Disciplines instead of the normal three.

Destiny: Later in the war, the Krevcheski will break their Oaths and betray their masters, joining the side of the Tremere and changing their name to Ducheski. What becomes of them after the Renaissance is unknown, save perhaps to the Council of Seven. KHAVI

Even Tzimisce grow apprehensive at the mention of the Khavi. This revenant line was bred by Byelobog and serves himonly. The Khavi squat amid the marshes of the northlands, poling their skiffs along the Baltic rivers and coasts. They do not move among mortals, save when they run low on food or breeding stock.

The Khavi are a secretive line, existing only to advance Byelobog’s goals. Exactly how he bred them is unknown, but the Khavi are a strange family, even by revenant standards. Khavi revenants emulate their master’s pallor; most are albi- nos and their skin constantly peels away in flakes. The most ancient Khavi, those who advise the White God directly, often appear as though they are rotting or suffering from plague.

Family Disciplines: Animalism, Obfuscate, Vicissitude Weakness: The Khavi’s skin constantly flakes and peels, particularly in direct sunlight. Khavi exposed to direct sun- light develop painful rashes and suffer -1 to Dice Pools until the rash heals (healing normally takes \[6 - Stamina\] days, during which the Khavi must avoid direct sunlight).

Destiny: The Khavi are exterminated by the Teutonic Knights; the last one is slain in the 14th century.

G\~\_BARDHANS

These loathsome creatures are known by a variety of names (the term “szlachta,” an ironic usage of the Polish Slavonic dialect’s word for “aristocrat,” is becoming promi- nent). In any event, guardians are ghouls shaped by Vicissitude into horrendous monsters. The process likewise affects guard- ian ghouls’ minds; most are mad and murderous creatures fit only to kill. Physical: Strength 4, Dexterity 3, Stamina 4 Social: Charisma 1, Manipulation 3, Appearance 0 Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 2, Wits 2 Attack: Bonecrafted weapon for Str +2 dice; bite for 4 dice Disciplines: Potence 1 Willpower: 4 Notes: Armor plating gives +I die to soak rolls HELLHOUNDS

This template refers to any of several sorts of Vicissitude- altered canines. Tzimisce most commonly make use of wolfhounds, though mastiffs and Great Danes are also used as “raw material.” Physical: Strength 4, Dexterity 3, Stamina 4 Social: Not likely Mental: Perception 3, Intelligence 1, Wits 3 Attack: Claw for 3 dice; bite for 5 dice Disciplines: Potence 1 Willpower: 4 Notes: Armor plating gives + 1 die to soak rolls

VOZHD

These mammoth composites are used as living siege engines by voivodes at war. A vozhd consists of multiple ghouls fused together through magic and Vicissitude into one com- posite behemoth.

Statistics for vozhd are found in The Book of Storyteller Secrets; more detailed rules to distinguish individual oozM: are provided below.

Attacks: A vozhd has multiple limbs, enabling it to make multiple attacks. It gains additional dice, which may only be used to split Dice Pools. The number of extra dice it receives is (5 + \[the number of ghouls used in construction/3\]).

The vozhd has a number of Health Levels equal to the number of ghouls used in its construction. The first third of the Health Levels use the “OK wound penalty, the next third use the “-1” penalty, and the last third (before Incapacitated) use the “-3” wound penalty.

Master: Voivode

TORTURE

Anyone can hurt a helpless victim; this Skill covers the ability to do so in a planned fashion, for a specific end. A skilled torturer can use torture devices to damage a victim’s Willpower (by rolling Manipulation + Torture, difficulty equal to the victim’s Staminaor Courage \[whichever is higher\] + 4, the torturer can strip away one point of temporary Willpower per success). When Willpower is reduced to zero, the victim confesses to whatever the torturer desires (even falsely admitting guilt if necessary).

Novice: Older brother \*\* Practiced: Town guard

Competent: Magistrate’s man Expert: King’s torturer

\*Legend: Torquemada

At the foot of one of these gibbets, covered with flowers like the column of a terrace, an executioner was seated.. .his

Possessed by: Fiends, Inquisitors, Constabulary Specialties: Psychological, Digits, Hot Irons, Confessions gown seemed was gloved all covered in red.. with . . splattered blood and his hands

“I rebuilt a man from head to foot, after removing his entire skin. He was so badly built\! Ha\! ha\!”

\- Octave Mirbeau, The Torture Garden Tzimisce have developed many unique and secret arts in their distant solitudes. Many of these arts are practiced only in the Old Country; few Cainites experience them and live to tell their clanmates.

VINDICTIVE: (3 PL MERIT)

Your personal honor is your life, and you will go to the ends of the earth to settle a score or avenge a slight. When directly opposing someone who has insulted, shamed or harmed you, you gain an additional die to all combat Dice Pools.

This bonus does not apply toward casual foes, only blood SKILLS CRAFTS (BODY)

This is not a new Skill, but arefinement ofthe Crafts Skill presented invampire: TheDark Ages onpage 172. With this Skill, a Fiend can control her use of Vicissitude. Each level of the Body Crafts Skill enables its practitioner to refine her technique and undertake more difficult “sculptures”; the lev- els below should give an idea of what a Fiend is capable of under idealconditions (ample time, victim properly restrained, etc.).

Novice: Yank and tuck Practiced: All your sdachta have “signa-

enemies. For example, a Tzimisce would not get this bonus against the bandit who ambushes her on the road but would receive the bonus against the Shadow Lord who slew her sire and drove her from her ancestral fief.

The down side of this Merit is that you must do everything in your power to avenge such deeds or insults. Should you refrain from action, the Storyteller is within his rights to deduct temporary Willpower from your character until such time as you pursue your vengeance once more. NATURALLY SUPPLE: (3 PK MERIT)

You are attuned to Vicissitude like a fish in water (or blood, or pus...). Your difficulties are reduced by two when using Vicissitude on yourself (copying someone exactly, ture” deformities.

bonecrafting someone into an elaborate shape, etc.). Competent: You can make a poetic example of a transgressor. Expert: You can make.. .things God never in tended.

Master: You can create an exact duplicate of someone. Legend: You can make an insightful and exact duplicate of someone who exists only in ideal. Possessed by: Tzimisce, Revenants Specialties: Improving Appearance, Combat Use, Noses,

SECULAR: \<.a( BT,

You have begun to explore the first glimmers of what awaits mankind after the Renaissance. You have a dim under- standing of the scientific method, and while such concepts as evolution and entropy are still beyond you, you have begun to suspect that the world is much more complex than the Chris- tian and pagan fools imagine. The difficulty to affect you with any Faith-based power (including Infernal magic\!) is raised by one. Once per story, you may automatically regain a single Willpower point (you do not live with the same dread of Skulls, Beaks

damnation that many other Cainites do). Moreover, by spend- ing a Willpower point and making an appropriate Intelligence + Science roll, you may formulate concepts and invent ma- chines unknown in your time (higher mathematics, elaborate torture devices, etc.). The Storyteller must use prudence in adjudicating this; a da Vinci-esque flying machine is remotely conceivable, while an A-bomb (fun as the thought might be) is impossible.

You may not follow the Road of Heaven or the Road of the Devil. Moreover, the difficulties of all Conscience/Convic- tion rolls are increased by one (you are too existential to be overly concerned with your actions).

This is a simple Koldunic ritual, but an important one. This ritual, enacted nightly, allows the Tzimisce to “awaken” Tzimisce have long been renowned (or feared) as master

the spirits in his haven. These spirits “manifest” themselves in sorcerers, though their preeminence has been eclipsed by the

objects, which assume sentience and individualism, often rise of the Tremere. Most Fiends have forgotten the elder

displaying unique personalities in the process. Thus, a Fiend’s magic of long-ago nights, and few who remember teach it to

gate might speak to the vampire in a dull, grating voice, their childer. Nonetheless, there are a few ancients who still

complaining about the weight of the castle on its keystones; a practice the magical Discipline of Koldunic Sorcery.

mirror might slyly praise the vampire, while a knout might System: Koldunic Sorcery resembles Thaumaturgy (and

cackle with glee and beg to be laid across a victim’s back. is cast in the same manner), though it has no connection to

The Tzimisce may command any such house-spirit to theHermeticpracticesoftheTremere. Ithas itsownpaths and

silence, and the spirits generally display servility and obsequi- rituals, which are incompatible with the magic ofthe Tremere,

ousness. However, if ill treated (or if treated politely by an though recent cooperation with House Tytalus has allowed

intruder), the spirits may fail to warn the Fiend of intruders in certain Fiends to develop Koldunic equivalents of the Paths of

his domain (which is the primary function of the spell). Blood, Spirit and Flames.

This power is not considered a clan Discipline, though Tzimisce with an appropriate mentor may learn the power

CONJURE (LEVEL THREE hrESSER RITUAL) hMON using the experience point costs for an outside-of-clan Disci- pline. No Fiend would ever instruct a non-Tzimisce in the Discipline.

Koldunism survives into the modern age, but is exceed- ingly rare. The Fiends of the Oradea League are known to practice the Discipline, as are certain Sabbat elders and their childer.

Simply put, this ritual allows the sorcerer to evoke one of the lesser demons that haunt the Slavic lands. These “demons” have no connection to infernal beings; they are most similar to the spirits revered by werewolves. Nor do the demons attempt to make a pact; the relation between sorcerer and demon resembles that between a master and vassal (albeit a highly malicious, intractable vassal). All Slavic demons have names, khXDUWIC PATHS

which must be learned by the sorcerer, and all must be “sworn” to the sorcerer by accepting a point of her blood. A koldun may Koldun learn a path equivalent to Spirit Thaumaturgy

“retain” a number of demons equal to her Charisma or Intimi- (see The Vampire Players Guide), known as Spirit Ways, as

dation score (whichever is higher). Demons are not “bound” their first Path. Other Paths practiced by koldun include

to the sorcerer; she must coax or (more likely) cow them into Koldunic equivalents of Creo Ignem (Fire Ways), Rego

performing services. Elementum (Natural Ways), andRego Aquam (Waterways).

A lesser Slavic demon can appear in virtually any shape; See Vampire: The Dark Ages for details on these Paths.

many take the shape of normal animals, though some appear freakish indeed. Use the stats for a demonhound or incubus from Chapter Nine of the Vampire: The Dark Ages rulebook. Like Thaumaturgy, Koldunic Sorcery grants its wielder

Storytellers owning Werewolf: The Apocalypse may also, at access to rituals of various sorts. These rituals, though magical,

their discretion, assign Slavic demons any of the various spirit are not Hermetic, having no connection to the Egyptian/

powers from that book. Latin tradition. Many rituals (not surprisingly) require blood to be spilled (a Blood Point’s worth per level of the ritual, from

THE INMOST TUG (LEVEL PIYE RITUAL)

either the caster or a sentient sacrifice); some also require clumps of sacred earth (from a caern, node, barrow, graveyard or similar site). Koldunic rituals are rarely written down; practitioners rely on mnemonic cues.

System: Unless described differently below, these rituals are invoked in a manner similar to Thaumaturgical rituals. In order to cast a ritual successfully, the caster must make a successful Intelligence + Hearth Wisdom roll (difficulty 4 + the level of the ritual). Typically, only one success is needed for the ritual to be successful.

LIBELLUS SANCrCIILNIS 1

Unlike most Koldunic rituals, this requires no blood sacrifice or other dross; it can be activated with a single word and a gesture. This ritual allows a ooioode, by making a Manipulation + Empathy roll (difficulty of the victim’s Will- power), to manipulate the emotions of a being bound in the Blood Oath. For example, the love instilled by a Blood Oath could be debased to lust, or refined to fraternal devotion. This ritual can even be used to warp a Blood Oath into fear, hate, or other negative emotions.

CONJURE GREATER DEMQN (LE\~L F m RITUAL\>

This ritual is similar to Conjure Lesser Demon, except a mighty entity of the Old Country appears. Such a being is not generally subject to intimidation; it must be coaxed to serve, and has no qualms about destroying the sorcerer should the offer not be to its liking. For this reason, koldun rarely use this ritual. Like lesser demons, greater demons have individual names and can appear in any shape. Storytellers should use the template for a warrior servitor or tempter on pp. 268-269 of Vampire: The Dark Ages and assign additional powers as they desire. CREATE VOZHD (LEVEL SIX RITUAL)

This ritual, combined with Vicissitude, enables its prac- titioner to create a voqhd war ghoul (see Book of Storyteller Secrets for the creature’s statistics). The Tzimisce must gather a sizable number of ghouls - at least 15, though 20 or more are commonly employed. The ghouls may be human or animal, and all must be force-fed a concoction of each other’s blood (a Blood Point of the mixture will suffice). Once this is done, the ritual begins.

The ritual consists of a continuous chant, which the Fiend must utter while using Vicissitude to mold the ghouls into a composite creature. The casting Tzimisce does not have

to be the “sculptor” of the uozhd, though most prefer at least to participate in the flesh-shaping. The ritual takes (the number of ghouls used - 7) hours to cast, and the caster must maintain the chant without interruption for the duration of the casting. If this requires the caster to remain awake after daylight, he must make Via rolls to stay awake. DRACUL CLEVEL NINE RITUAL\>

Besides the obvious prerequisite (Koldunic Sorcery 9+), the caster must have a Vicissitude score of 6+ to employ this ritual; only two Tzimisce, including the Dracon of Byzantium, are known to have used it. This ritual imbues the Fiend with the primordial energies of the Old Country, transforming the vampire into a hideous dragon.

System: The Fiend’s Strength rating triples, his Stamina rating doubles, and he sprouts a scaly hide equal to Class 4 Armor. The dragon may drink blood normally, and may also choose to consume the flesh of slain foes; an entire human corpse (12 Health Levels) may be chewed up and eaten per turn, provided the dragon does nothing but eat. For each Health Level of flesh “digested,” the Fiend may regurgitate a fiery acid inflicting one Health Level of aggravated damage per “point” invested in it (maximum of six Health Levels vomited per shot). The Fiend gains an additional five “Bruised” HealthLevels, but alldifficulties to hit him are reduced by one (he’s enormous).

VRYKOLAS (ANIMALISM LEML $ax\>

Drawing on his unholy connection to the beasts of the wilds, the Fiend drinks the blood of a ferocious animal - a wolf, bear, boar, or what have you. Immediately after the draining, a metamorphosis occurs: The Tzimisce takes on some of the features of the beast, becoming a hybrid monster. Fiends often use this power in combination with Assume the Zulo Shape and Chiropteran Marauder, especially when mak- ing war on Lupines.

System: The Tzimisce drains all the blood from an animal. Over the next three turns, the Tzimisce sprouts fur, tusks, claws, horns, and other assorted weaponry (the precise accouterments depend on the animal killed). Generallyspeak- ing, the Fiend gains +1 to soak dice, claws inflicting Str +2 aggravated damage, and a bite inflicting Str +1 to Str +3 aggravated damage (again, depending on the creature killed). All Social Traits drop to zero.

This power costs two Blood Points to activate. The Tzimisce must have a Vicissitude score of 3 or greater to use this power. THE PLAYING (AUSPEX LEVEL SIX)

This power has helped many a Fiend hold onto his domain. Normally, it is very difficult to effect precise duplica- tion of a specific person through Vicissitude. With this grisly power, however, a Tzimisce may “graft” the skin of a flayed victim to his own, enabling the Fiend to pose as the skinned person. In this manner may Tzimisce infiltrate the halls of the mighty.

System: The Tzimisce first uses Vicissitude (and perhaps a sharp knife or two) to flay the victim, then evokes this power while naked and wrapped in the victim’s bloody skin. The skin “grafts” onto the Fiend’s own, thus granting an automatic Vicissitude duplication (no roll required). The Fiend may maintain the stolen shape as long as he likes.

Once a shape is discarded, the victim’s skin peels away and the power ends. However, the Tzimisce can maintain a mental “catalog” of “imprinted” shapes (a number equal to \\ 1: Crafts Intelligence, Merit assumed of (Body) with Eidetic or roll five an Memory). (difficulty minutes’ infinite number effort An 6).

if the Tzimisce has the “imprinted” shape may be and a simde Dexteritv +

This mighty power is available to only a few ancient Fiends. The Tzimisce mystically taps into the spirits of the land, effectively becoming one with the realm. Essentially, the Tzimisce metamorphoses into something less like a vampire and more like a guardian spirit; she knows most of what transpires in the realm and gains a measure of control over the land itself.

System: Once acquired, this power is always on. The Tzimisce picks a “fiefdom” on which the power centers (this should always include the dom, and the area should be rela- tively small - no more than a 10-mile radius). Within this area, the Tzimisce is lord and master. All difficulties of Domi- nate, Presence, Animalism and Koldunic Sorcery powers used by the Tzimisce against natives of the fiefdom are reduced by one; the Fiend may control weather and climatic effects in the realm (Intelligence + Hearth Wisdom, difficulty 6 to 10 depending on what the vampire wants to do); the vampire may subtly shift landmarks, causing a traveler to become lost, stumble into a pit, overlook a haven, etc. (again, difficulty 6 to 10, depending on what the vampire wants to accomplish); and she may pinpoint intruders’ locations within the fiefdom (generally, difficulty 7).

This power has a drawback: The Tzimisce is effectively “bound” to the fiefdom; she will never leave it willingly, and if forced out, she will suffer as though she were cut off from her special soil. If she drops to below one die in all Dice Pools, she withers and dies. ENTRAIL SARARAND (VICISSITUDE LEVEL SIX\>

The vampire with this power may animate his bowels, imbuing them with manipulative and even combat potential. The writhing entrails may be used as crude whips, extra limbs or snares, though they lack the strength to constrict foes.

System: The vampire must spend a Blood Point. The action is automatic, though the vampire takes one Health Level of normal damage as his bowels burst out through his abdomen. For each dot of Stamina the vampire possesses, he gains one additional die to perform actions such as grappling, striking, etc. However, these dice can only be used to perform extra actions, not to add to existing Dice Pools. \&WING TESTUDO WICISSITUDE LEVEL SIX\>

The Fiends well remember the effectiveness of the large shields used by the Roman invaders of their lands. Accord- ingly, Tzimisce at war occasionally make use of a similar, though ghastlier, substitute. Grasping a victim, the vampire uses flesh- and bonecrafting arts to lay open the victim’s back in such a manner that her vertebrae are exposed. The vampire then grasps the glistening spinal cord in the manner of a doughty warrior hefting a shield, and hoists the victim bodily by this makeshift “handle.” Not only does the victim provide

protection against attacks, but -for so long as the victim lives -the Fiend can manipulate the flesh and bone of the “shield” to provide an arsenal of offensive weaponry.

System: The Fiend must have a Strength of 5 -through any combination of nature, vitae and/or Potence - to use this power. The testudo-to-be must be immobilized and her back bared. The Tzimisce then makes a Dexterity + Crafts (Body) roll (difficulty 8) to lay open the victim’s back. If successful, the victim loses only one Health Level; if the roll fails, the victim dies hideously and a new shield must be sought.

The Fiend then lifts the screaming, twitching victim into the air, using her to block attacks as he would a normal shield. Attacks blocked in this manner inflict damage on the victim, who remains intact until she has suffered five Health Levels beyond the point of her death (at this point, the victim is too mangled and tattered to provide further protection). Further- more, while the victim lives, the Tzimisce can make a Dexterity + Crafts (Body) roll (difficulty 7) to form the “shield” into an offensive weapon - for example, forming spikes from the victim’s rib cage, making a whip or noose from the victim’s skin, etc. Each weapon formed inflicts one Health Level of damage on the victim and creates an appropriate weapon (i.e., rib cage spikes might inflict Str + 1 normal damage, while a skinwhip would inflict Str - 1 normal damage and possibly entangle an opponent, etc.). IMPALER’S FENCE CVICISSITUDE LEVEL $EVEN)

Some powerful Tzimisce use this power to mark the edges of their demesnes. To activate this power, the Fiend must grasp a victim, holding them for a full turn. The victim’s spinal cord springs through the crown of his skull and his anus, generally causing the victim’s death. Furthermore, the rigid spine-shaft uncoils to a length of 10 feet and (if the victim stands on soil, earth or other soft material) affixes the victim to the ground, thereby forming a “stake” or “signpost” of sorts. System: The vampire grasps her victim and rolls Strength + Medicine (difficulty 8); this roll is resisted by the victim’s Stamina (difficulty 8). If the vampire succeeds, the victim takes (10 - Stamina) Health Levels of damage; Fortitude does not help to resist this damage. Furthermore, the victim is considered horribly encumbered (minus three to Dexterity). It can be assumed that mortals who suffer this self- impalement die shortly even if the initial damage does not kill them.

Prelude: you grew up in the kennels ofthe Bratovitches. F\~\~\~ your earllest nights, your allegiance lay

the hounds - after all, you were whelped at the same bitch's teat, housed in the same pen, fed with the same scraps, and beaten with the same strap. You sported andhunted with the litters- strangling any rivals who thought to challenge you, of course - and by adolescence had swelled into a hulking mastiff of a

One night you were unchained and sent to make war on other dogs. You led your pack howling under the full moon to the village your Master had designated to die. Despite your savagery, however, you were unpre- pared when the villagers began howling back.

You engaged the leader, a 10-foot tower of black fur and red fangs. His claws laid open your flanks, but you would not suffer another ri- val for leadership of your pack,

of family. Dropping in under the splayed talons, you grasped the champing muzzle and squeezed with

The rest of the werewolves looked on, eyes widening in unchar- acteristic horror, as you yanked the man-wolfs head from its torso. You hurled the trophy tn challenge at your foes, and your own pack followed. The rest of the wolves fought well, b their leader's death had unnerve

by twos, and erect one sharpened stake for eoery pair; have it done by sundown on the morrow, or the Sovereign One will grow truly

be Of further use.\*-.

Concept: You are the uoivode's first man - and all had best remember it. You are just canny enough to know that the VOiVOde despises YOU, So YOU make Yourself indispensable. Your Physical Attributes and Abilities reflect the violence you have dispensed and endured Of your life.

Roleplaying Hints: At the uowode's behest, you have cultivated the thinnest veneer ofcivllity-now, for example, YOU ask for tribute first instead of simply beating the villagers without explanation- Although YOU have little learning and less desire for any, you display abundant amounts of low cunning. Your first interactions with other beings are crude attempts at intimidation; should this fail, toady to any in power while you devise more subtly violent schemes.

Equipment: Hellhounds, mace, scale hauberk, writ of

GENERATION: ?In, NAME: PlRYER: MLIflN HAVEN:

on the master’s hellhorse was the vowode himself, noble finery

Quote: I would not speak of such things on a night like this, were I you.

Prelude: Everyone in your village shunned you. They whispered behind your back, speaking of your evil eye. In truth, you felt an evil eye scrutinizing you- as you grew older, you felt a presence beyond your hovel’s walls, like the breath of an invisible spirit.

When you were six, Old Darvulia, the witch, came for you. She took you from your parents and into the forests, where she taught you Cyril’s letters and many things besides. You came to know the revels high atop the hills, the dead hands stretching from rivers, the things that shambled from the forests at night.

Darvulia could teach you. One night, when the balefires flared green on the crags and demons bellowed amid the thunderclouds, the Deathless Ones came from their lairs. Old

and the dead skin underneath reduced to ribbons beneath the Gargoyle onslaught.

Since then, you have done what you must to survive. You have served one uoivode after another; you have walked with Brujah and Cappadocian, Gangrel and Toreador (and, some whisper, Tremere). You have traveled to the lands of the Moors to discourse with Assamite scholars, and you have learned secrets in midnight libraries amid the French Alps. But always, your dead heart pulls you toward the House on the Hill, whose mysteries will once again be yours.

Concept: You are equal parts noble and scholar, your knowledge applied primarily toward self-advancement. Un- like many scholars, you are not devoid of social graces, but those you display are merely for show, instinctive mechanisms to avoid unnecessary entanglements. You are an unerring scale, assessing people and things into their proper categories, There was, of course, a limit to what Old

and when you are alone with someone you have deemed unworthy, you can be a truly terrible creature.

Roleplaying Hints: Treat others with distracted polite- ness until you have assessed their use to you. File the useful ones into their proper categories and relate to them abstractly but efficiently thereafter; the worthless ones, ofcourse, are best deployed as pawns against your enemies.

Equipment: Fine traveling clothes, short sword, scrolls and books, coin of the realm

Quote: The conscripts are doing the best that humans can do, my liege, and the szlachta do the fiefdom proud, but we have the Teutons on our right and the Shadow Lords at our heels and we are dying out there, Your Excellency, and.. . . Yes. Yes, milord. Punish the village for its failure. Every soul sent screaming to Hell. I hear and obey.

Prelude: You were a seventh son of a seventh son, heir to nothing save a brigandine hauberk and a German sword. You put both to good use, serving in the Byzantine army and later in the Third Crusade. You participated in some few deeds of valor and many, many atrocities; when the wars were over and Jerusalem lay under the crescent, you left a land and a faith

that meant nothing to you.

A vow& mistook your resigna- tion for callousness. Although nominally Christian, you knew enough about the ancient traditions to bear your fate stoically. If the Fiend was no better than your old leaders, at least she was more honest about it.

and Bratovitch dog-soldiers against Tremere, Ventrue and Lupines. You broke the

atrocities

Tzimisce -you saw similar horrors at Acre, and one must be aggressive in defending one's land. No, it is your liege lsdy's indifference toward those who fight and die in her service. The things you command may not look like the sainted icons in the Church, but they are yet men, and your sympathies lie more with them than with your lady high in the tower.

Concept: It is rumored that deep amid the Balkans dwell roosters with plumes of fire and fanged beaks, and perhaps this is true, for you are a specimen rarer than hen's teeth - a compassionate Fiend. You are a skilled leader, ably balancing pragmatism and sympathy; this has earned you more loyalty than any Blood Oath could. Your Physical Attributes and combat Abilities are high, courtesy of a lifetime of war.

Roleplaying Hints: You were weary before you took up eternal arms and your service to the voivode has granted you little respite. In battle, you are an efficient engine of war; in service, you are meticulous enough to win the Fiends' respect. Alas, they are beginning to lose yours, and some nights you gaze toward the horizon's pyres and yearn for the liberating flames.

Equipment: Chainmail hauberk, broadsword, destrier, banner with voivode's standard

NATCIRL: DEFENDER GENERATION 72w PLRYER: DEMEnNoR: LONEl HavEN: CHRONICLE: CLRN: T2IWf.W CONCEPT: DAPYOJICHT -ATTRIBUTES Strenach\_\_a DextemP\# PHYSIC\~L \#a000 a o o o Stamina\_\_\_\_\* a 0 0 SoclnL Charismapa Appearance-a Manipularion-aao000 ABILITIES- a a o 0 o 0 o 0 P c r c MENIAL e p r \~ o n \~ a \* o o o o

Wits lntellipence-\*soo\~o -a a a o 0 0 TRLENTS Alemess-a A \~ \~ i n e o a o a o o o o o o o Arhlericz\*ooooo Brawl-\# Dodge-. Emmrhv- \_aooooo o o o o o o o o o o I I L a t c r n Y 0 0 0 0 0 0

Animal Ken\_\# SKILLS a o o o 0 KNOWFDGES Archerv-\*.\*\*oo Crahs-o E Herbalism-o Melee\_\_\*aaaoo M Ride-\#\# \~ i q u e r t e o 0 o \~ o o o o o o o o o o o o o U \~ K o a o o o \~ o 0 0 o

Academics-o HearrhWidom-aooooo o o o o o

I""estLgaflan-0 0 0 0 0 0 L a \~ \~ 0 0 00 0 Lm"p"arics\_\_a MedicinePo o a o 0 o 0 o 0 o 0 O O c c u l t \~ 0 a 0 0 0 0 0 DIXIPWNES ADVANTAGES BACKGHWNDS a0 @ O lIlllX I ANIUALW AUIPEY MCBIITmJE o 0 o o 0 YERP

0 0 0 0 PEIOURCEI aa\*oo a 0 0 0 0 0 % ? \! L a

0 0 0 0 VIRTUES 000000 00000

c a n W l 0 " c e \~ a \~ a\*o a Self-contd\~\~a a a 0

000000 0 0 00 0 Couragee. a0 0 0

’II’WE JADED ARISTOCRAT

Quote: A traveler seeks shelter from the storm\! Oh, I smell she is no more than 14 winters.. .and a virgin\! Marvelous\!

Prelude: You were groomed for nobility amid the cata- combs of the Szantoviches. As a ghoul, you were trained in all the gentle and womanly arts common to Szantovich daughters and were later given in marriage to a count along the Bohe- mian marches. (He died dishonorably in his conjugal bed, hair turned white and face swollen with terror, no doubt from the

untimely illness that laid him low.)

Of course, there was a small im- passe concerning the inheritance, but after you had discoursed privately and at length with your stepchil- dren and the local magistrate, everyone was all too happy to cede the estate to you. Your demesne thus established, you set about civilizing your bar- baric fiefwith all that Classical and Byzantine culture had to offer. Your court attracted no few visitors along with its in- famy- though a few honeyed words and bloody examples sufficed toquietyoursubjects’

worst rumormongering.

Still, when strange shadows were seenflitting to your battlements against the moon, the villagers whis- pered. When children began disappearing from the nearby hamlets, the villagers hissed. And when pale riders swept out of the East to sojourn at your estate, the villagers’sus- picions were confirmed in gruesome fashion. By then, of course, it was too late. The masters had deemed you worthy, and you were

Your retainers inform you that the peasants mutter of the Deathless Hell-Countess, but what is that to you\!The kine are yours to do with as you will and you owe them no explanation. Recently, you have begun cultivating pawns in high places and low, and your estate has begun entertaining visitors from a mighty court indeed.

Concept: You were Szantovich in life and in some ways embody what the Toreador will later become. No, that is not so - you are a hundred times worse. You are adept in all courtly arts, leaving overt violence to your retainers and demonic emissaries.

Roleplaying Hints: You are as sweet and inescapable as a quagmire of honey. You never appear imperious at first, treating churchmen and magistrates with courtly hospitality. You slyly cultivate a compassionate, aristocratic faqade, par- ticularly toward young girls, whom you adore. Erzsebet Bathory and the White Witch of Narnia have nothing on you, my pretty.. . .

Equipment: Castle, levies, szluchta, implements of tor- ture worthy of a Renaissance dungeon, several beautiful pages, several hideous ex-pages, several cysts that were ex-pages, hellhounds, library of blasphemous and prurient tomes.

NKTURE: NON5TER GENERKTION:\~\~” DEMEANOR: TYRANT H\~VEN: CI\>NCEPT: ADEDAPIIIOCF3AT CMN: R/N/%?E CHRONICLE

Appendix: From the Diary of Lambach Ruthven

LIBE

70

12/24/97

Christmas Eve.

A fitting time for ghosts to walk, yes?

I write this to you, my beloved Klara, though you have lain in that tiny churchyard in Silesia for nearly 700 years. I always did love you. Thoughts of you comfort me in the still hours, when in my inner eye rears laughing Tepes, or that ineffable Other of whom Tepes is but the merest silhouette.

Tonight they will make their so journ: Vukos. Chorbry, Devin and the rest. They will stalk Greenwich Village, Harlem, the Upper West Side. They will celebrate the solstice Ritae in the old fashion, just as they will celebrate what it means to be Tzimisce, to be did among nameless village crossroads not so very long

ago. Sabbat.

To be free.

am very drunk. Do you know what I do now, Klara? I go amid the

rotting lanes of the Bowery, and there I feed from rancid derelicts. I do believe I carry AIDS. Klara. So the whispered legends of our kind are true a virus runs through my cold, dead corpse.

My apologies for the strange juxtapositions and...stream-of- consciousness, yes, that is the ferm...nature of this missive. Since you are dead, think you will care little, but Genevra tells me there is order even among the shades. Such a pity-

They will throw their heads to the stagnant sky and howl in the old tongues. They will gorge themselves on the terror-laced vitae of dozens of "suicides" and "domestic disputes" and "missing persons." Above all, they will reenact that most hallowed of nights. When mighty Lugoj stood alone and rampant in that crumbling church. When he ripped aside the flagstones, to reveal...I cannot even write of it, Klara. Not in my little brick cocoon. miles and

oceans parted from bloody old Europe. I am a coward and a weakling. I am a lord of the Sabbat. Above all, Klara, I am a good lad.

I was at a Zantosa fete over a month ago. The subject of Lugoj's Night arose again. One would think that after 550 years, beings so brilliant as we Tzimisce would have something more entertaining to talk about. I felt I should go as mad as one of Malkav's get\! And I wanted to stand up, to scream at them all, to speak of what I saw that night. Could they not see the webs of blood binding them like scarlet grave-shrouds?

The eldest of the host family, hoary old Istvan Zantosa. took me aside. He leered at me then, and though I was in the grip of powerful hallucinogens manufactured by our Nosferatu allies below, I heard his whisper like a scream reverberating through subterranean caverns.

Be a good lad.

And then, still grinning, he tapped his cane, once, twice, thrice, on the brownstone floor.

There are catacombs beneath the Zantosa home, and these connect to the subways and the sewer systems of the Nosferatu, and where those lead, even I know not. All I know is that the tunnels wind gaping and forgotten, like a black maw waiting to swallow the surface world. The Sewer Rats, it seems, have outsmarted themselves; no one, even the eldest among the Nosferatu, knows the chambers and corridors in their entirety. Anything anyone could be down there, safe and amniotic in the dark.

New York is our stronghold, the soul of the sect. There are close to 10 million kine in the metropolitan area. Our Seraphs meet here, and our voivode often calls the clan to gather among the skyscrapers. Truly, on any given night. one could not find a more concentrated registry of luminaries among the Damned.

On any given night, so much blood. So much blood. A scarlet web of blood. Enough to sate....

I grow weary of this subject, Klara. I shall write of it no more, and instead shall lose myself among the currents of shoppers and celebrants, like Jacob Marley's wailing ghost. Let the others snare themselves more tightly in their blood rites and savage games. Let them take pride in what it is to be Tzimisce.

I already know what I am. far better than any of them. I think.

I am a good lad.

Hot

73

Savage barbarians swept in from the north, bringing death and despair with them. Our people were helpless, unable to predict the timing of their raids and incapable of resisting their might without preparation. As the raids worsened, food and other resources grew short. Civil war arose within the kingdom itself. Our once-proud land split into warring factions, each tearing at the others with vulpine single-mindedness, while around the periphery, the wolves gathered.

It was a long, dark time for our folk, and many elders whom I had thought invincible perished in the innumerable sieges, battles and raids that punctuated those grim decades. Most of us withdrew from the coast and its vulnerability, trying to preserve a tiny domain for ourselves. It was the brutal, interminable, exhausting defense of that first fief, I think, that infected me with the incurable hunger that drives me to this very night. Again and again my opponents, both mortal and immortal, tried to take what was mine, but to no avail. I learned this lesson first and best: Defend what is yours, let n o other take it from you, for that dishonor is worse than Final Death itself. It is with such thoughts in mind that I gird myself for what comes.

T o ensure the safety of that first fief, I had to expand my power base - no one who stands alone is truly secure. In this I learned a second lesson: The acquisition of power only whets the appetite for more. It was during those first nights while I painstakingly constructed the core of my empire that I was truly happiest. Most believed that I had little chance to succeed, but I triumphed anyway, uniting my vassals, Cainite and kine, in the alliance that drove the invaders from our lands.

My victory was complete, and with it came the spoils I wanted so dearly. The kingdom was mine. As prince, I established tight control over my subjects, and for this some labeled me a tyrant, but the memory of the fragmented fief that had been an easy victim for its enemies was always in my mind. I became obsessed with ensuring that such events would never happen again. I hunted down and destroyed my foes throughout the land and I sired childer, such as yourself, to rule in their stead. Even my most vehement detractors cannot deny that I brought order where there had been chaos, plenty where there had been want, and strength where there had been weakness.

My reign passed quickly to my eyes, although it consumed the better part of centuries, a time in which I ruled unchallenged. Success, however, sometimes harbors costs that are dire indeed, and this is perhaps the most ironic of all lessons. Overwhelming victory is sweet, but it makes enemies out of those who fear strength and unites opponents who would have otherwise remained divided. It breeds jealously in those lesser beings who would claim all credit for themselves and for whom no reward is great enough. All around me, dark forces more inexorable than fate itself toiled ceaselessly. I saw my closest friends become the bitterest of my enemies, despite decades of unquestioning loyalty. Without warning, ancient foes whom I believed long dead rose again, their powers increased tenfold, and their minds focused solely upon vengeance, and rivals whom I had unwisely counted upon to continue fighting amongst themselves made peace, joining forces against me. Success had brought me ruin, but my downfall was shaped by more than the blind workings of destiny.

This, then, is the last of my lessons to you, childe, and be certain you learn it well. There are powers abroad in this world that manipulate the affairs of the most powerful Cainites as if we were but children. We refer to these beings as the Daeva, and it is they who are our greatest and most mysterious foes. Among their ranks are the Antediluvians, those most ancient and monstrous representatives of our kind, but they comprise only an incomprehensible element of the awful whole. Unimaginably powerful spirits, nigh-omniscient magi and terrifyingly beautiful lords of the fae also occupy the ranks of these secret masters. Each Daeva fears and distrusts the others, resulting in an endless hidden war that can lead only to ruin. The Dark Father, Caine himself, saw that the Daeva bring only pain and sorrow to his children and he bid our founder to oppose the Secret Masters’ works wherever he could. That, too, is our task; we are soldiers of the night who follow in the footsteps of our fallen lord. We must oppose the Daeva wherever we encounter their work, and, perhaps most importantly, we must combine the strengths of the Children of Seth and of Caine into a union that is strong enough to resist their manipulation.

By bringing strength, unity and prosperity to these lands I have entered unwittingly into the war of the Daeva. Their unspeakable hand is evident in the forces that even now move against me. Who knows? -perhaps my rise was part of their plan as well - but my downfall assuredly is. The sounds of battle grow louder as my enemies pour through the breach and flood the killing ground beneath the keep. I go now to join the final battle.

May your will never falter,

Friederich von Taunenberg, The Year of Our Lord 1 197

\-- -

I greet you childe, in the name of Clan Ventrue. With these few pages I hope to introduce you to the history of the clan to which you now belong. Additionally, I wish to impart to you some of the wisdom that has been passed down to us from Ventrue, who was our father. Read closely, and take these lessons to heart, for you cannot hope to rule - let alone survive - without understanding the origins of the shadowy world that surrounds you.

We of Clan Ventrue are the purebred aristocracy of the night, the direct descendants of Caine, through the blood of his most beloved childe, Ventrue himself. The vitae that flows through your veins is the noblest in the world. Do not dishonor it, for with this heritage comes an awesome responsibility.

It is our duty, as the true inheritors of the mantle of Caine, to rule in his stead, preserving the most ancient of our kind’s traditions. We are the kings of this world and its generals, the soldiers of Caine carrying his banner against a time when it will be desperately needed. It is not out of arrogance that we assume this role; rather, it is because we know the awful truth against which we must vanguard.

Ventrue studied at the knee of the Dark Father during the early nights of the First City, learning from him terrible secrets that our clan still guards. The most crucial fragment of knowl- edge that we have preserved concerns the existence of unimaginably powerful entities known as the daeva. Ventrue learned of these beings from Caine, who revealed to him that the world is secretly manipulated by powers far beyond the perceptions of common beings. These creatures, or daeva, seek to shape the very nature of existence to their own unknowable ends, manipulating even the most powerful Cainites with alarming ease.

Caine recognized the threat these beings posed and fore- saw a day of Armageddon in the far future when the world lay in ruins. We, his beloved children, would survive but only as hunted remnants of our once-proud clan. Those humans, lupines and mages who remained alive would place the blame

for the catastrophe upon the Children of Caine and hound us across the blasted landscape. The chief pawns in this battle for the future of our kind are the Children of Seth, for it is mortal society that most truly defines the shape of the world. Ventrue, in his wisdom, recognized that our clan is in the best position to influence society and steer it away from the coming apoca- lypse. Thus, in keeping with the stern duty that Caine originally placed upon our founder, Clan Ventrue has sworn to prevent this dark future from coming to pass. We have quietly assumed the terrible burden of responsibility. Someone must take charge, uniting Cainites and kine together into a force that can combat the sinister efforts of the daeua. Granted, this role places us in terrible danger - we have become the beacons of opposition to the secret powers that vie to guide the world - but we do what we must regardless of the consequences.

This view of the world has had a strong effect upon our clan, creating the qualities of arrogance, isolation, social bigotry and paranoia that are, to most, the defining character- istics of the stereotypicalventrue. What they do not understand is that it is our destiny to lead the other clans, rebuild the Second City and oppose the daewa. It is obvious that we are the only ones fit for the job, thus, it is understandable if we grow irritated when some fool questions this fact. Our confidence and selflessness in this role leads others to mislabel us as arrogant, mistaking pride-of-place for conceit and martyrdom for vanity.

Additionally, this confidence occasionally blinds us to new and changing conditions, and- as much as we would like to deny it - even Ventrue elders recognize that our clan’s traditional ways can sometimes lead to stagnation. Certain of their own wisdom, some Ventrue elders withdraw from the world and lose touch with those they govern. Our clan’s pragmatic respect for success, however, saves it from stasis. Despite the ingrained Ventrue tendency to respect tradition and age, we value accomplishment most highly, regardless of means - a fact that has allowed many young Ventrue to gain status quickly after particularly successful coups.

Since matters of precedence are so important, however, clan members jealously guard what honors they possess and obsess over attaining and protecting their status. The constant conflict over position, which results whenever large groups of Ventrue gather, severely handicaps our attempts to accom- plish anything and leaves the clan divided against itself. Some of the fiercest battles of the Dark Medieval world are wars of Ventrue against Ventrue. Although the members of our clan share the same traditions, those traditions teach that power goes to the strongest and most ruthless. Thus, wars among Ventrue are usually fought over fitness to rule, leaving indi. vidual clan members strong, but isolated.

Fear of the daeva and the ambition of fellow clan members has also bred paranoia among our clan as a whole. The typical

Patrician views even the most common event with suspicion, fearing unseen manipulation. Dramatic occurrences such as war, plague or famine are even more likely to be seen as the deliberate result of external manipulation. Responsibility for many events can be laid at the feet of the other clans, but truly mysterious or traumatic happenstances are generally believed to be the work of the daewa. For many of our clan, the stereotypical Ventrue thirst for power has a deeper meaning. The only decisions that we can be sure are not the result of manipulation by thedaewu are the decisions we make ourselves - and even then we cannot be truly certain. Convinced of its own rightness, consumed with status and propriety and seeing enemies around every corner, Clan Ventrue has carved out a position of leadership within the rigid social structure of Europe, but clan elders see dangerous times ahead. Clan Ventrue is now stronger than it has ever

LIBELLUS SANGUINIS 1

been since the death of Charlemagne, but it is also divided. Once proud and united, we have fragmented into warring factions, separated by geography, kinship and patronage.

Each faction regards itself as independent and safeguards its own interests at the expense of the clan as a whole. Long- standing feuds that extend for generations have developed between factions. Many of these groups have drastically differ- ent ideas on how the clan should direct its activities. Some factions concentrate their influence among the clergy or local nobility, while others work to strengthen the monarchy against its rivals. A growing minority has even begun to pursue mercantile interests, a decision seemingly at odds with the very concept of Ventrue nobility.

A few wise clan members now see how dangerous this divisive situation truly is. Fractious and warring amongst itself, Clan Ventrue is easy prey for its many enemies and the perfect tool of the daewa. We fear that without internal order, the clan cannot hope to combat its many enemies. Other clans circle like vultures over Ventrue holdings in France and the Holy Roman Empire, while strange tremors shake our tenuous grip on the Church hierarchy. Across Europe, the elders of Clan Ventrue gather their forces for the coming struggle.

It is impossible to fully understand our clan’s role in the world without an appreciation of how it has evolved since the tragic fall of Rome. In most respects, this story is one of internal division and of lost chances, but throughout the dark times, our clan has maintained its grip upon the fabric of western society, ever working to repair the damage caused by the empire’s collapse. THE FALL OF ROME FIND THE EARLY FEUDAL PERIOD

The Roman Empire was a bastion of Ventrue power. In the early nights, our clan was united and claimed sole control over the empire; however, the alliances necessary to defeat Carthage required us to share power with other clans, prima- rily the Toreador and Malkavians. With these other clans came the weaknesses inherent to each, diluting Ventrue strength when it was needed most. They challenged us for control of the senate and the emperor and were joined in this struggle by other, non-Cainite forces including mages, power- ful demons and the Children of Seth. Soon the emperors were swayed by so many different influences that no one could predict, let alone control, their actions. With most of our energies turned toward survival, the empire was bereft of leadership and began its tragic decline. Even before the death of its last ruler in A.D. 476, the empire was a moldering corpse, and it was time for the chief parasites to seek other hosts.

After the fall of the Roman Empire, Clan Ventrue frag- mented into four main factions: the Byzantines, the Inconnu, the Nobles and the Ecclesiasticals. Two of these factions, the Inconnu and the Byzantines, withdrew from the mainstream of clan politics. Instead, they remained obsessed with the fall of Rome, each seeking to preserve the Eternal City’s traditions in its own way. The Nobles and Ecclesiasticals, on the other hand, sought shelter among particular groups of kine, using them to extend their power into the new barbarian age.

Those Ventrue who were too cowardly to remain and defend their ancestral lands shifted their power base from West to East, relocating to Byzantium. Many tradition-bound Patricians settled in Constantinople, the Capital of the East- ern Empire, hoping to continue on as they had inRome. These Ventrue formed an alliance with the Toreador and Tzimisce geared toward restoring the glory of Rome in the East. They assumed a position of influence in the Byzantine aristocracy and Church but have been forced to share power with the other clans. Although they remain influential within the empire, the Byzantines have distanced themselves from their

fellow clan members and exert virtually no influence over clan policy as a whole. Nevertheless, in their own way, they have kept the traditions of Imperial Rome alive for over 700 years. The Inconnu, on the other hand, seem less interested in preserving the empire’s traditions than in avenging its fall. These inscrutable elders reacted to the sack of Rome by withdrawing from the world and enticing powerful members of many clans into their ranks. Little is known about the Inconnu or their goals other than their passton to avenge or counteract the destruction of the Roman Empire. Some of the oldest Roman Ventrue are believed to have assumed key roles within this mysterious sect.

For the majority of Ventrue, however, things were much less settled. As the Western Empire declined, it was overrun by hordes of Germanic barbarians, who migrated west and south under pressure from the even more savage Huns. The Ger- manic tribes, Visigoths, Ostrogoths and Vandals conquered the West and settled among the Roman population. They interbred with the dwindling Roman aristocracy and super- seded them in many locales. Western Ventrue were left with little choice but to exert their influence over this new Ger- manic nobility. They used two main methods: direct control over selectednoble families and indirect manipulation through the powerful Christian Church.

CWARLEMAGNE The Nobles scattered away from Rome and the Mediter- ranean Coast, infiltrating the barbarian aristocracy as the AGE AND THE SECOND DARK invaders squabbled among themselves and quickly fell into almost constant warfare. The perpetual threat of siege and

By the time that the Frankish Kingdom rose to power during the latter half of the 8th century, we were ready to battle made survival difficult for the clan. Many Ventrue met their Final Death during this period, including some of the

reassert ourselves as the true rulers of the West. With Ventrue backing, a succession of skilled monarchs guided the rise of the most powerful figures of the Roman Era. Others slipped into

Frankish state, culminating in the reign of Charlemagne. By torpor, hoping to wake in a more settled time. Those of us who

the time he was crowned Holy Roman Emperor by Pope Leo survived became masters of the arts ofwarfare and politics, but we also became isolated by internal schisms. As our fate grew

on Christmas Day A.D. 800, Charlemagne ruled the greatest empire since the fall of Rome, including most of Europe from more and more entwined with the families we controlled,

the Pyrenees to Saxony. Throughout the continent, powerful Ventrue often found themselves at odds with other Ventrue.

Ventrue assumed key roles in the feudal infrastructure that Intra-clan warfare, both open and covert, was the result. Out

formed the backbone of the Frankish Kingdom. of this fierce competition, skilled leaders emerged and forged small estates by establishing control over a few strategic families.

Support from the papacy was key to the Frankish success. Encouraged by members of our clan, the Pope confirmed the election of Charlemagne’s father as King of the Franks and Those clan members who remained in the Mediterranean

personally crowned Charlemagne as emperor. Additionally, area and assumed positions of leadership within the Church

Church- trained monks became the clerks who managed the became known as the Ecclesiasticals. At first, they concen-

mundane administrative affairs of the state. Our presence trated solely upon the Church‘s administrative apparatus, but

within the ranks of those monks provided us with a prime later, after the Rule of Saint Benedict ensured the success of

opportunity to infiltrate the new state’s bureaucratic machin- the monastic way of life, they became involved with wealthy monasteries. Clan members in the Church initially sought refuge from waves of barbarian assault but quickly realized that the route to eventual control was through conversion. During the 5th, 6th and 7th centuries) Christianity played a key role in the survival of western thought, Roman tradition and Clan Ventrue. By converting powerful barbarian monarchs, the Church absorbed the invaders into the mainstream of western culture, turning them fromoutside threats into Christendom’s staunchest defenders. The clan Disciplines of Presence and Dominate proved extremely useful in this process, allowing valiant Patricians to exert necessary influence over the often strong-willed barbarian leaders.

Some Ecclesiasticals concentrated upon the preservation of ancient wisdom - both Roman and older Cainite lore - passed down since the time of the Second City. These clan members found allies among the growing monastic movement of the 6th century. Monks withdrew from the world, forming self-sufficient communities (often in isolated locales), which were perfect hiding placesfor Ventrue with too many enemies. They were good places to conceal both valuable clan records and artifacts from the chaos of the outside world.

Additionally, influence within monasteries provided our clan with access to the only centers ofknowledge and learning still viable in the chaos of Europe. Monks were practically the only mortals capable of reading, writing or performing even simple mathematics and, therefore, were the primary source of the few administrative clerks employed by early feudal mon- I archs. what opportunity LIBELLUS little Controlling bureaucracy to SANGUINIS rebuild. the monks still existed, meant 1

establishing a foothold in and it also provided an

ery.

The cooperation between Church and state, which made the Frankish Kingdom so successful, was encouraged by an alliance between the Nobles and Ecclesiasticals. Members of both factions set aside their petty differences and joined together to promote the interests of the new kingdom. For the first time since the fall of Rome, we had found unity.

Additionally, the leaders of this Frankish resurgence formed a tentative alliance with Clan Toreador, laying the groundwork for the celebrated Grand Court. The court be- came the focal point of Cainite politics in the West and its smooth governance appeared to ensure the continued success of Charlemagne’s new state, the Holy Roman Empire. In the end, however) Ventrue success was too bitter a pill for our jealous enemies to swallow. The clan’s accomplishments at- tracted the attention of our many adversaries, uniting them against us and engendering savage attacks against Ventrue holdings throughout the Frankish Kingdom and the Church. Our alliance with the Toreador suffered initial stresses soon after Charlemagne established the empire. Many Ventrue believe that the disasters that overtook us occurred at the express command of the \&vu. Certainly, other clans felt threatened by Charlemagne’s conquest of Western Europe and desired to strike at the immortal heart of Frankish power. Worse still, Prince Alexander lost control of the Frankish royal family after the death of Charlemagne, and the Grand Court disintegrated into open conflict. Once again - as in Rome 400 years earlier - savagely competitive factions struggled over the reins of power. It took less time for Charlemagne’s empire to collapse than it did for Rome, however. Fratricidal warfare broke out almost as soon as

2harlemagne’s corpse cooled. His sons fought over the scraps )f the empire while smaller nobles seized the opportunity to rrab regional power for themselves.

Meanwhile, our hold on the Church weakened. Lasombra, roreador, mages and even mortals struggled actively for :ontrol of the Church‘s administration. Many Ventrue be- ieved that our overwhelming success had arrayed an unlikely :oalition of forces against us, or that the others were merely 001s of the enigmatlc daeua. Wiser heads, however, observed hat each of these forces was involved in the Church from its mception, and argued that the Ecclesiasticals merely overes- timated their own control over Church administration at the time. Regardless of the origin of our opposition, this period marked the last time that we possessed firm control over the Church. Since the fall of the Ecclesiasticals, the clan contin- ues to influence Church policy, but never to the extent that it had previously.

This chaotic situation worsened as another series of barbarian invasions, as fully devastating as those that brought Rome to its knees, plagued the Holy Roman Empire. From the north, Viking warships raided coastal towns and burned monasteries to the ground. From the east, the Magyars rolled into Central Europe, seizing northern Italy and plundering its rich towns. In the south, Saracens struck along the Mediter- ranean basin, conquering Iberia in the 9th century and sacking Rome in 846.

Many Ventrue saw the sinister hand of the daeva in these ill-timed invasions. Members of clans Brujah and Gangrel mixed freely with the barbarians, while Assamites abetted the Muslim raids openly, cementing the lasting hostility between our clans. At that time, however, we could do little but fall back and lick our wounds as European society collapsed around us. $HE REINS OF POWER

During the invasions of the 9th and 10th centuries, the administrative and political structure of the empire collapsed, leaving each area to deal with its own problems. Survival, and therefore military might, became the sole focus of society. As a result, social organization became highly stratified and power concentrated further in the hands of the military elite. These developments could not have worked out more per- fectly for our clan.

Clan Ventrue survived the hard times by fostering a strong nobility. We now find ourselves in control of that nobility and in an excellent position to influence the develop- ment of the society that is even now emerging from that long, dark age. Our clan’s energies are currently focused on five main regions of interest: the infant nation-states of France, England and the Holy Roman Empire, the Church and the growing money economy typified by the independent trading cities and their merchant guilds.