f

ARBITRIUM VINCIT OMNI

BY JACKIE CASSADA, RICHARD STRATTON AND CYNTHIA SUMMERS

"Sound me out with shrewd words. Let your own intellect not be hidden, nor that of which you have deepest understanding be kept secret." -The Exeter Book, Maxims I,

Translated by S.A.J. Bradley

SPECIAL THANKS To: Written by: Jackie Cassada, Richard Strattonand Cynthia

The Ladies and Gentlemen (not to mention their Summers Development by: Richard E. Dansky Additional Development by: Justin Achilli Editing by: Cynthia Summers Art Direction by: Lawrence Snelly Art by: Andy Bennett, Leif Jones, Michael Gaydos, Chuck Regan Front Cover Art: John Bolton

manager, Dean, who really doesn’t fit in either category) of the White Wolf Warehouse. Without their hard work and just general coolness (again, except for Dean, who’s too hip to be cool), this book would still be sitting on a Thanks, pallet somewhere, guys - what buried you under thousands just like it.

do is appreciated. we’re (But gonna if you have ever words.. try to back . .)

the forklift over me again,

Layout and typesetting by: Conan H. Venus Front and Back Cover Design: Richard Thomas and Conan H. Venus

735 PARK NORTH BLVD.

0 1998 White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Reproduc- tion without the written permission of the publisher is expressly forbidden, , SUITE 128

except for the purposes of reviews, and for blank character sheets, which may be reproduced for personal use only. White Wolf, World of Darkness,

CLARKST0N9 USA CAME STUDIO

3o021

Vampire the Masquerade, Vampire the Dark Ages and Mage the Ascen- sion are registered trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Werewolf the Apocalypse, Wraith the Oblivion, Changeling the Dreaming, Werewolf the Wild West, Libellus Sanguinis Keepers of the Word, Libellus Sanguinis Masters of the State, Dark Ages Compan- ion, Dark Ages Storyteller Secrets, Constantinople by Night, Transylvania by Night, Transylvania Chronicles I DarkTides Rising, Clanbook Cappadocian, Clanbook Tremere, Clanbook Toreador, Clanbook Brujah, Liege Lord and Lackey and Three Pillars are trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, lnc. All rights reserved. All characters, names, places and text herein are copyrighted by White Wolf Publishing, Inc.

The mention of or reference to any company or product in these pages is not a challenge to the trademark or copyright concerned.

This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters and themes. All mystical and supernatural elements are fiction and intended for entertainment purposes only. Reader discretion is advised.

Check out White Wolf online at http://www.white-wolf.com; alt.games.whitewolf and rec.games.frp.storyteller PRINTED IN USA

TABLE OF CONTENTS

45

79

༠༦༣༦༩

INTRODUCTION

BOOK ONE: ARTISANS

ARBITRIUM VINCIT OMNIA

BOOK TWO: USURPERS

BOOK THREE: ZEALOTS

CONTENTS

power, and the Courts of Love carry

llows a rough format designed fo

will be most useful

Book One:

Artisons

Seated at the narrow window of her chamber, Isouda stared down at the dark-clad figure crossing the dravobridge Afrown briefly puckered her brow and lips as she considered her visitor Marianna's beauty had always had a way of engendering enon in her the nuns veil had not hid- den it in the least Thankfully the young woman was a friend fur- thermore, the confirmed loss of Merrit brought a new and alto- gether unpleasant flavor to their current situation

She felt rather than heard the reappearance of Paulo "Youheard it all then, she said

“Indeed. Poor little Marianna, searching for her husband, all alone in the great wide world,” Paulo replied, his mock-sympa- thetic tone embittered with scorn.

Isouda turned to the Magister, who stood casually in his usual spot beside the chessboard. His patrician features had never failed to capture her attention, even when she was annoyed with him. Now, however, was not the time for her to enjoy his visage. “When you have lost a loved one and understood such grief, then you may feel free to wallow in the misery of others. You will forgive me if I do not join you in your joke - Marianna is a sister through both God and clan, no matter how ridiculous she seems to you.”

“Ofcourse, lady. Many apologies.” Paulo advanced the white king’s pawn a single space and looked at her expectantly.

She frowned again (the insincerity of his apology would need addressing, but later) and sat down across the board from where the Magister stood. Carefully, she advanced a pawn in response, knowing that he was staring at her face, her hands, her every move. For all that he had been dead for five years, Paulo was still human enough to remember certain things. It worked to her advantage when Don Roland was foolish enough to send his smitten childe to continue their dealings. “How fares your master?” she asked, pitching her voice to hold the proper of amount of solicitous con c e rn .

Paulo sighed, took two steps and waved a hand in annoyance, giving Isouda a prime view of a piece of velvet o n his belt. She had managed to catch sight of gold thread woven into that particular scrap of fabric before he chose and advanced a pawn. “He has not visited the courts in five months now. He trusts only me to serve as his proxy. Of late, though, my business has brought me here instead. Don Roland wishes to learn-”

“Whether or not I can repair the damage done after the incident with that fool Fulk.” Isouda smiled and moved her queen’s knight.

“As always, you cut to the quick, gracious lady.”The Lasombra moved a knight of his own, placing it where it had only a pawn for protection. Again, the briefglimpse of the velvet on his belt. This time, Isouda noticed a single initial: R.

“I can promise nothing, of course. I am fortunate enough to have some sway with Severus, as a fellow Artisan, but if he chooses not to continue his relations with your master, that is his business.” “Don Roland is most concerned that the matter be brought to some conclusion. After all, such an incident only serves to fray relations between our clans.”

Isouda smiled lightly; her lips, still as red as when she had first come across the border between life and death, were holding his attention more firmly than was the board. “True, but your pres- ence at our Court of Love has assisted matters greatly. I do hope you are finding entertainment enough to suit you?”

Paulo permitted himself a chuckle. “If you mean watching that fool Geoffrey abase himself before Aline, then yes, I have enjoyed myself immensely. Whyever do you allow him to hang about the place?”

neglect learn proper humility. 1 think a few weeks of fetch-and-ca\~ will have a most satisfactory effect on our proud little fop. He

your catechism.” Continue fur ehe next two weeks. We are not yet with him. must learn that this is not some emperor’s garden of earthly delights.” She advanced her knight again and moved her hand back, brushing his as if by accident. Though her fingers had been chilled for years, her touch was still thrilling, at least if Paulo’s reaction was any indicator. She smiled as his hand jerked back, Overturning “Why, Don Paul0 a rook - which such clumsiness in knocked Over Pawns\* is not like you.” The Spaniard hastily replaced the pieces, leaning forward as he did so. The velvet was now in his lap, and she could see a golden sun in addition to the letter. “Apologies, my lady.”

“Yes, my lady, and no, my lady.” What now? do you “Good. no ham Just to thesame, spend more speakalittlewithSister time in her company. Avis-it ne will will not suffer for your absence in pursuit ofvirtue. A good the material.” lady does See not what neglect his feelings herself me spiritually regarding while she pursues and his insWt ridiculous him - sire. he I believe sm be there of me is work to yet to be done. Continue to

than when we are finished.

“Accepted, of course,” and she favored him with a gracious smile, although she was already tired of the charade.

“Of course, my lady.” And what of Severus? “You do me great credit, Rosamund. It pleases me to see how far you’ve come.” Leave him to me.

“I am pleased to please you, lady.” As you wish.

Isouda smiled, genuinely this time. Rosamund had the makings of the next Queen of Love; with a

Love did not press the issue when a lady made a request), and excused himself with a deep bow. Isouda studied the board for the next few minutes, con- sidering what had been left behind: a number of pawns had been advanced (none very far), the white queen had been left undefended, a black knight had been placed too far forward, a white rook stood threatened, and a black bishop had been advanced a few ranks - interesting signs indeed.

little more time to temper the last gawkiness into womanly grace, Isouda would have to consider her a serious rival. “Good. You may go, and I shall see you tomorrow at the court. Do not forget what I’ve said.” Rosamundcurtsied. “Ofcourse not. Good night, madam.” And she departed as quietly as she had entered.

The Artisan considered the board be- fore her again. Severus, of course, was a moot point. After the loss of his childe, he held no interest in continuing relations with the Magisters, and indeed would give a great deal to ensure that the Toreador as a whole did not continue such. Precisely how much he would be

well as her own. Afew minutes later, Rosamund knocked quietly at the door, entered without waiting for

willing togive was still open to debate, but Isouda suspected that it would be more than enough to

an answe; and’closed it behind her without a whisper. For a moment, Isouda was lost in admiration of her handiwork. It was so remarkable how the fiery thatch of hair and gray-green eyes had, with a little care, grown into one of the court’s prettiest roses. But there was work at hand, and she considered her protege gravely as the girl stood before her.

“We shall speak French, for you need to practice it more,” said Isouda, knowing that she had spoken, Speak as we always do, fur privacy.

Rosamund replied meekly, although her true intent was not quite so demure. “Of course, my lady.” I understand you perfectly.

“How go your lessons?“ I saw he wore your favur. “Very well, thank you, my lady.” Just as you requested. “I have heard many good things from your tutor. I am most pleased, childe.” Does he suspect anything? Does $1 proceed?

‘‘I hope I am always so worthy of your praise.’’ He suspects nothing.

satisfy her. Fulk‘s loss had not been mourned overmuch here; Isouda thought the brat to be one of Severus’ grossest lapses in judgment.

Marianna’s appearance presented her with an interesting op. portunity, though. If her visitor were correct in assuming that it had been a Lawmbra who had led the siege that resulted in Merrit’s disappearance, then Don Roland might be persuaded to lend his assistance in learning the whats and wherefores of the matter in exchange for the promise of the return of Severus’ good favor. As it hadtakentheMagisterseveraldecadestocultivatetherelationswith the so quickly. artist, he Whether would not he be could likely be to persuaded throw away to betray such an one investment of his own to believed preserve that that the relationship loss of Artii would favor remain (and courts, to be and seen, games) but Isouda would eventually take their toll on Roland’s temper and would be enough to persuade him to better behavior.

“Black queen takes white king - check and mate,” she murmured in satisfaction.

ARTISANS IN THEIR OWN WORDS

The Toreador are, by and large, a secular lot, more temporal than their fellow Cainites They dwell in the mo- ment, neither looking too far ahead nor too far behind. History is a story about things come and gone, perhaps relevant to the day, but not required reading. The future is murky and unknowable, and only extreme arrogance would permit one to dare to claim knowledge of what is to come.

When one considers the transience of beauty - the flower that smiles today dies tomorrow - the Artisans’ attitude is not entirely surprising. However, for a group of individuals who have the potential to enjoy life everlasting, that’s a lot of transient moments. For the Toreador, the trick to eternal life is drinking in existence’s moments when they arrive, each framed by the search for beauty and truth.

Toreador firmly believe in the importance of beauty and love in the world, even their particularly dark one and even despite their particular tastes. A world without beauty gives one nothing to aspire to, and with no inspiration, what reason is there, then, to drag out one’s existence? Matters are likewise with love, but to the Toreador, love is a much more serious business. A world without love is a world without life (which, admittedly sounds odd coming from a Cainite, but the Torea- dor definition of “life” is more akin to “existence” than “the \\ I ebb and flow of blood in one’s veins”). CLAN STRUCTURE Unlike many of their brethren, the Toreador maintain a fairly tight clan structure. All Toreador are expected to know 1

Toreador as of their mortal freedom place society neonate and to ascend keep near has to that the the it. very chance Social is not top, often station to but move found there can up be among is in a as the certain rigidly world the amount kine. locked of her A

) elders, provided she attracts the right eyes, says the right things and shows the proper initiative. Some claim that, at the higher echelons, often one’s art becomes secondary to one’s social graces. These claims are by and large quite correct.

Those Toreador who come from the peasant or merchant classes (and how few they are\! ), and who believe they are being instantly catapulted into a realm of equal opportunity by the Embrace, are in for a rude shock. The Cainite in the castle is their lord, and they had best not forget it. Few believe in the notion that death should equalize all; why should a peasant, Embraced with straw in his hair and dung on his boots, suddenly be elevated to the same position as the lord of the manor? That peasant must first show that has some social graces before he can start dreaming so grandly, and no sire worth his salt skimps on this training. After all, the upbringing of the childe can and does reflect on the sire, and no sire wishes to be disgraced by his childe. For a clan that places so much emphasis on art and the finished “project,” the Toreador see the training of a childe to be no different than.the creation of a stained glass window or illuminated manuscript.

Toreador select their potential childer carefully for skill at art, “noble quality” and potential political use (not necessarily in that order). The would-be childe must not only possess qualities worth preserving, but must show some ability to grow personally. It is one thing to Embrace a harper who was raised by peasants, but he will be worth little to his sire if he still eats and talks like apeasant even after adecade of instruction. Such a childe, one who never outgrows his humble origins, is usually shunted off to some distant outpost, or is driven into self- imposed exile after one too many humiliating incidents at court. In spite of all care, there are still impulse Embraces of beautiful mortals, wherein some Toreador decides that she wants to preserve a beautiful mortal from aging past her prime but with little other thought to that childe’s usefulness to the clan. This leads to one of two things - either the childe quickly learns to make herself useful in some way, or she is put where she cannot do much damage. It is rare for Toreador to destroy their childer unless the Embrace has driven the poor unfortunates mad, or they have caused heinous embarrass- ment to clan and sire.

Another impulsive Embrace, even worse than one done for beauty, is that done for love. Perhaps a Toreador lord wishes to bring his lovely young wife across to live with him forever, or a Cainite lady decides that she must have the young count who has stolen her heart completely. These Embraces often have the saddest ends - unexpected Changes can drive the new childe to rage, resentment or madness. Sometimes, the sight of the be- loved displaying the same predatory instincts as her sire is enough to send the sire into depths of remorse or insanity. The odds of a romantic Embrace producing a happy union are slender, but occasionally Fate or some other higher power smiles on the pair. If the couple can survive the first tumultuous months of their new relationship, they have several decades of more of the same to look forward to.

OMEN OF TOREADOR Perhaps it is only natural that a clan which traces its lineage from a master sculptress should be so protective and supportive of its women. In an era that largely views women as chattel to be moved from one household to another, the Artisans take a very expansive view of their ladies. Women outnumber men in the clan, and distaff voices carry a ring of authority that is used to obedience. A number were once the keepers of the household keys, born to positions of authority. Others may not have been born to power, but they soon learn its ways.

Chivalry, unsurprisingly, finds its greatest support among the Toreador. Some have argued that under this school of thought women are no better off than before, merely treated like lapdogs instead of chattel - not much of a improvement. These loudest critics tend to be women of the more “martial” clans, such as the Brujah and Gangrel. The Artisans and their propo- nents disagree; when one is required to be quiet and respectful when a lady speaks, one might actually listen, and (Heaven forfend\!) actually learn something. And chivalry has produced men, not beasts who happen to be able to swing swords.

Many Toreador women model themselves after the great queensand beautiesof antiquity (HelenofTroy, Esther, Hippolyta of the Amazons, the goddesses of Greece and Babylon), and aspire to equal them in the realms of strength, wit and beauty. The ascension of Eleanor of Aquitaine to her current post as Queen of Love and patroness of chivalry has added her to the roster of eternal worthies as well, demonstrating that the heights to which the Toreador aspire can still be reached.

Some clans see such “largess” as foolish fripperies - “Just like a woman to be preoccupied with frills,” they say. “Leave the real work of governing to the men,” they say. The Artisans, however, came largely from the ranks of those who know what power a woman can truly hold, and how she can use it. These Cainites know who controls the household, who encourages the arts, who learns the real secrets, and who gathers the murmurs and sleepy tales of the pillow - and that is power beyond what most Cainites can comprehend.

RANK AND PRIVILEGE

One can rise through the ranks by merit and skill alone, although it is rough and slow going. Without some form of surety regarding a neonate’s politics, art and bloodline, many older Toreador are inclined to distrust those who simply appear on their stoops, and with good reason. It can be frightfully easy to impersonate a Toreador (so long as one can carry a tune, have a pleasant speaking manner and remember to stare at the appropriate moments), and the clan fears infiltrators terribly. A neonate who is new to the ranks, but without any sire or other elder to introduce her around, can expect to be tested a thousand thousand times before anyone is remotely satisfied as to her claims, and even then, she will be watched for a long time to come.

Acquiring a patron or mentor of the elder ranks is one of the best ways to get one’s name recognized and accepted. A patron is not chosen, although an artist or other low-ranking clan member may petition a higher-ranking Toreador for her patronage. The criteria for selecting an artist to patronize varies from elder to elder, and none seem to quite know how or why certain choices are made. It has happened that an elder bypasses a promising neonate for an overly proud blockhead; such choices may have more to do with those who are not immediately recognizable as part of the picture. Perhaps the blockhead has a particularly powerful sire who has deemed that his childe shall have only the best, or has a boon which he has used to obtain the patron’s favor. The bypassed neonate may have politics the elders do not care for or may be the childe of someone who has been cast out of court. The elder himself may have certain requirements that must be fulfilled before he will even consider a ward, such as a certain amount of wealth, the right bloodline, political beliefs, even some- thing as simple as nationality.

Patronage is, quite simply, the process by which the patron takes the childe under his wing, teaches her what she needs to know about the manners and business of the court and introduces her to the “right” people, while the childe works for her patron by producing artworks on commission or showing off her patron’s name to the best of her ability. Patronage may last for decades, even centuries, if the benefits are mutually agreeable. There are few better bargaining tools within the clan than the promise of patronage - granted or SECULAR VERSUS SACRED Very few other clans experience the clash of Church and crown more intensely than do the Artisans. Straddling the line between those two worlds as they do, Toreador experi- ence far more interclan strife than do the others, with both sides squabbling like siblings when a parent’s back is turned. The Church‘s power is considerable, but not absolute. For every Holy Roman Emperor forced to kneel in snow for three days to gain a pope’s favor, there are local churches and

monasteries ransacked by knights eager for profit. The balance is an uneasy, ever-shifting one, and the demands and desires of the Toreador on both sides of the equation make equilibrium in these affairs a mvth. THE cwsaaicw

In an era where the Church is center of power, art and culture, small wonder that the Toreador hold so large a place in its workings. The fact that the Artisans must share that niche with others is not always a bone of contention. The Church‘s labors span thousands of miles and millions of lives, from stonecutters to Crusaders, oblates to the Holy Father. At the lower levels of Church power, Cainites might spend their unlives quietly working away and never come into contact (or conflict) with one another. As they climb in power, the smaller numbers of positions available in the hierarchy inevi- tably brings the various factions and clans into closer quarters, and rivalries are bound to erupt as a result. But in many cases, a Toreador interested in constructing a cathedral can work quite well with a Lasombra intent on making the Church‘s authority manifest by diverting tax funds from the local lord. A number of Toreador enter the Church, or find new fervor for it, after their Embrace. The Church represents security- there is strength to be found in the solid stone walls and familiar rituals, in the belief that one is serving God and that He might, in His mercy, remove the stain of Caine’s touch eventually. Are there not passages in the Bible where Christ forgives the stained and sinners? In passion there is ecstasy, and the ecstatics of this time are considered touched by God. This fervency occasionally translates into True Faith - and a Cainite with True Faith is a miracle indeed.

The Church also preserves a connection to mortal life that is often lost with the Embrace. Abbeys and cathedrals are hardly the place to hide oneself away from the world. They are vital, thriving communities with extensive groups of people dependent on them. The abbots and abbesses who rule these places hold extensive power over the lands surrounding the abbeys and the peasants who farm them, and can be summoned to the royal court or act as justices for the Crown. Cathedrals are often the sites of pilgrimages, and the seats of bishopric power. Toreador wishing to maintain their human natures often gravitate toward such spots, seeking themselves while assisting or bedeviling others. A few Artisans seek bishop’s miters for the temporal power that can be wielded over a region, in addition to the considerable spiritual power the see grants. However, the power wielded by the clergy need not always be in the form of an iron fist bearing a bishop’s signet or coming from an abbey. In smaller parishes, the lower clergy are seen as the spiritual leaders of the community, respected and even loved. The act of confession or blessing holds great weight with the simple people, and withholding those sacra- ments can produce remarkable results when necessary. In the days following the Third Crusade, many clergy have turned

powerless to their list of virtues. As the clergy exhort the less-than- chivalrous knights to improve their behavior, society likewise urges them on. The approval (or disapproval) of the clergy, high or low, has a far greater impact than many Cainites give it credit for, and the wise Toreador learns to take advantage of her fellows’ negli- gence. CHURCH ART

Without the Church, there would certainly still be art, but there would not be nearly the opportunities it is given to grow during the years covered by Vampire: The Dark Ages. The building of the cathedrals has resulted in much more work for many Toreador, who seek to scale new heights with their creative endeavors. The sponsorship of the Church grants the Artisans some measure of freedom to experiment; after all, every bishop wishes a fine cathedral for his seat (and for a magnificent stopover point for wealthy pilgrims), and it simply wouldn’t do to have a church that looks no different than the one a few towns over. But is the striving of the Artisans who work on that cathedral a matter of wishing to do one’s best work for God or to outperform the rival working on another cathedral? In the end, whether the height the Artisan wishes to scale is spiritual or artistic is a moot question. Music, stained glass, stonecutting, wood carving, the mystery plays - art finds a way, and in the end the art is all that matters to all concerned. MONASTIC ORDERS

Why the orders? After all, surely a lifetime or more in a nunnery is a clear and present danger to one whose “condition” would lead her to be called ademon or worse. For many Toreador thus directed, there are few other choices - a woman wishing to serve in the Church has no choice but toenter amonasticorder. Awidow,evenaCainite, may be forced to seek shelter in the abbeys (if only for appearance’s sake), particularly if her husband’s land is usurped by an aggressive neighbor or king. For others, it is a matter of personal comfort. The routine of prayers, the safety of the surroundings, the contact with peers, all combine to make a familiar and comforting mixture that some Artisans find necessary and good when they are trying to keep their minds focused on their faith and search for God. And lastly, some Toreador, having been part of the orders in life, simply can’t imagine unlife without them.

Nearly all of the monastic orders at this time have at least a single Toreador in their midst. The only exceptions are the mendicant orders, such as the Carmelites; even the self-designated Ascetics do not seek out such. Extreme poverty rarely suits the Artisans, the logistics of travel are nightmarish to contemplate, and one meets up with too many Nosferatu among mendicants.

Toreador Embraced during or after Crusades often drift into the military orders: Templars, Hospitallers, Teutonic Knights and sundry smaller orders specific to individual kingdoms. These Cainite knights fall into each other’s company quickly, forming groups that do not cause much comment when all practice a particular routine. Such

BOOK ONE: TOREA

knights are discouraged from attempting to jump from these rag- tag bands to the actual Toreador knightly orders, however; each new conversion heightens the risk of the orders’ being unmasked for what they are. Instead, the Toreador subtly support these anonymous bands with gold and hospitality, in the process keeping them from looking beyond their current situation to something perhaps a bit more structured.

The Cistercians also hold a place in Toreador life, by dint of sheer numbers. By 1152, there are some 54 monasteries in the British Isles alone; it is Cistercian effort that supports the wool and cloth trades, making the Isles the leader in the industry. The Cistercian sisters are another matter for the Artisans, though. The Cistercian movement among women takes root largely in Spain and Italy, somewhat to the consternation of the Toreador; after all, being cloistered in a Lasombra abbey in the middle of a Lasombra-dominated country can be a dangerous proposition. The Cainite women who have chosen the Cistercian route often find themselves trapped in the webs of Lasombra intrigue with- out any effort on their part. The abbeys spin such like thread on a spindle.

The other order supported largely through Toreador effort is the Gilbertine nuns. Founded by St. Gilbert of Sempringham around 1131, this order of nuns, lay brothers and sisters, and canons has become a popular cause for English and Norman Toreador to support. Part and parcel with such interest is the favor of Eleanor of Aquitaine, who supported and respected Gilbert, even when he supported Thomas i Becket against her husband, Henry 11. In the 1160s, lay brothers charged that the Gilbertine abbeys were immoral (a charge no doubt brought about by lay brothers frustrated by the piety of the sisters), a charge never proven and cleared by the pope. At the moment, Toreador Heloise de Couci serves as abbess at one of the Gilbertine houses in Lincolnshire, while three Toreador men work as lay brothers in another house to the north. Heloise, in return for Malkaviansupport against aVentrue prince’s attempts to seize the house, has begun to add caring for the insane to the Gilbertines’ list of duties, an arrangement that has suited all concerned quite well so far.

The convent of Nogent-sur-seine also remains under the watchfuleyesoftheToreador,as it hassince itsfoundingin 1123. Founded by Peter Abelard for his beloved Heloise, the convent has been the destination of not a few Artisans on self-imposed pilgrimages, who come to pray in the chapel and hope for a love as passionate as Heloise and Abelard’s. Some Cainite lovers also pray to the pair as patrons of love that overcomes the odds.

Heresy is a delicate subject among the Church-Toreador. Those Cainites who entered the Church in the hope of absolution for the sin of their vampirism often prefer stricter tenets and more conservative theology, believing that the ordeal will strengthen them. Those Cainites who turned to the Church as a refuge for their art or to serve as lay canons tend to favor a looser hand on the reins of devotion, and are

given to less moralizing and more attention to God instead of ritual and dogma. The result is interclan squabbling over religion that occasionally leads to one side pulling out the battle-wagon and, through mortal pawns, declaring the other guilty of heresy.

Toreador elders are demanding that such quarrels cease, or at least that they be kept reasonably private. An investi- gation of heresy brings outsiders and many uncomfortable questions for all involved, particularly Cainites. However, there is evidence of a particularly virulent quarrel over heresy brewing, in spite of the warnings, over the Albigensians (or Cathars) who dwell in the Languedoc region of France. The Cathars’ extreme asceticism and loudly professed belief that Satan rules the material world while God rules the sacred have begun to wear on others - in particular the higher powers of the Church the Cathars no longer serve and the secular rulers unable to collect taxes from them.

A striking number of Cainites, not a few of them Torea- dor, have received the Cathar consolamenturn (the rite of initiation) and number themselves among the perjecti (or “perfect”). The dichotomy of any Toreador deciding that the material/physical world is evil and refusing to perpetuate it is almost too incredible to believe, which has more than a few of the elders wondering if these converted Cainites are in their right minds. The number of Cainites who have chosen to attach themselves to the Cathars as believers (or credenti) is currently unknown, but the rumored numbers are staggering. As the requirements of perfecti are no great effort on the part of Cainites (abstention from all meat but fish, remaining unmarried, creating no progeny, perpetual celibacy and ex- tinction of life to liberate the spirit from the chains of the flesh), a number of Toreador leaders fear that the vampires who swell the sect’s ranks may be drawing the wrong sort of attention from outside clergy. Already, vampires may kill with little fear of retribution; some wonder if they do so with the blessing of the Cathari leadership. And now come disturbing rumors that those Cainites who walk as perfecti make little effort to hide their true natures, with the worst offenders said to be the influx of young Toreador. Terrifying rumors are now repeated as fact across the breadth of Europe - that exsan- guination has become the method ofperfecti suicide so that the dying may feed the undying, and that those Cainites who serve as perfecti practice Amerath without fear of punishment.

When Raymond VI became Count of Toulouse in 1194, Catharism entered high politics. As secular authorities be- come interested in the Cathars, the Toreador elders fear that too much scrutiny will bring the eyes of the superstitious mortals and the Church upon the Cainites. Already the elder Artisans seek the identities of those who begin the first campaigns against the Cathari -perhaps Lasombra seeking to expunge the influx of Toreador, perhaps a mortal who knows too much, or perhaps another vampire who hopes to set the Toreador and Lasombra at fatal odds.

Kingmaking is a dangerous game, and one at which most Toreadors will freely admit they have little skill. There are grounds where angels fear to tread, and this is certainly one of them. The Toreador’s perceived lack of interest and skill in such matters often leads other clans to consider them to be beneath notice in the vineyards of politics. For those Artisans who do choose to play the game, their cousins’ docility provides them with unexpected, though not unwelcome, cover. While kingmaking is a game which the Toreador ignore, duke- and baron-making, on the other hand, is more to their liking, a game which the Artisans use to their advantage. In 1197, most countries are collections of duchies and baronies, ruled by a single king. A properly placed (and sufficiently fortified) duke or baron can make life difficult for his superiors, and certain large duchies (such as Burgundy and Orleans) are extremely influential when gifted with a talented duke. A king who must continually contend with the antics of a few rebel- lious barons cannot spend time expanding his kingdom’s borders, or dealing with an abbey that’s withholding tax revenues, or treating with the Cainite diplomat who comes as

of mice, men and monsters gang aft agley. Of course, even the most fractious duchies and baronies can usually be subdued by a king of reasonable competence, but rarely before the Toreador are ready to let them capitulate.

By virtue of a number of their innate gifts, the Torea- dor are consummate politicians and diplomats. When one is able to placate a flustered chamberlain and in the same breath inform the king that he is served by a fool, a career as a diplomat becomes simply a matter of opportunity - and the clan excels at creating those opportunities. Con- sider the necessities of the diplomatic existence: an emphasis on courtly grace and manners, familiarity with the intricacies of the dances of both Church and secular courts, and the closeness one must endure to one’s peers and subjects - all of these are second nature to a great many Toreador. Indeed, even when they have little inter- est in such, Artisans are among the first singled out by princes to perform diplomatic missions, particularly if those Artisans are not especially well-known to the com- munity (either vampire or mortal) at large. Toreador, renowned for their decadence and lack of focus, are rarely suspected of posing any threat, sufficiently dazzling in manners and the arts to allay any suspicions that do arise and skillful enough at observation to avoid observation themselves. Some Cainites sneer that both the Toreador and the Nosferatu truck in the same gossip; the Toreador simply acquire it at the supper table instead of at the garbage heap. Wise Cainite rulers know that while the Nosferatu will know the details of a palace’s every plot, the Toreador will know who set the plots in motion, why they did so and who let the Lepers in on the secret.

In Cainite politics, any connection a Toreador has will be exploited to its utmost, usually without the ex- ploitee realizing that she is being used thus. For example, the request of a loan of a horse might not seem like so great a matter between friends, but the Toreador borrowing the horse is acquiring it for a messenger borrowed from an- other friend to take a message to a third friend, who is requested to pass the message on to a fourth - the interconnected webs of favors owed and granted can ac- quire Byzantine proportions quickly. The webs spun between resources, contacts, allies, Cainites and mortals can dizzy even the sharpest Toreador, and all are so artfully and delicately balanced that a single wrong move can easily bring down the entire structure. Needless to say, no Artisan allows strands of favor to fray so perilously; if a connection to a mortal guildmaster is weakening, threat-

ening other portions of the web, then the Toreador quickly cauterizes the strand by whatever means necessary. By neces- sity, then, the Toreador maintain one of the busiest correspondences imaginable, and are forever seeking new and faster ways to send their messages.

Toreador, by necessity, are part of mortal life, in spite of the grumbling and attempts at separation. Mortal courts, cities and churches are Toreador playgrounds, and the Toreador who attempts to separate himself entirely from mortal com- pany will soon find the loneliness and limited companionship of his brethrenmaddening. Many Cainites have noted that the Toreador seem to need mortals in spite of themselves - as mirrors of themselves, as inspiration, as audience. Some claim that this is why the notion of Toreador hermits and ascetics makes for rich comedy; how could the social Toreador con- sider locking himself away on some mountain with only the birds to preen for?

Everywhere one looks in the life of the clan, one finds mortals - as subjects, friends, allies, coworkers, contacts, lovers, spouses, students and children. While the Toreador are certainly not the only Cainites to have associations with mortals, few others hold the living so close and so deep. For as many benefits as such connections might be, there are few worse wounds than a strike at a Toreador’s mortal relations. The loss of a trusted ally or casual friend can send an Artisan into a fit of melancholy, while the death or destruction of a parent, lover, child or spouse reduces him to rubble. Should, however, the vampire find the strength of spirit to turn on his foes while in the throes of despair, the enemy can expect neither surcease nor mercy.

Of the many potential opportunities for involvement in mortal life, the rising guild structure for craftsmen provides the Toreador with a new and unexpected vehicle for inserting themselves into the cities. Most of the guilds focus on the crafts or trades that incorporate art in some way - from weaving to goldsmithing to masonry - and for the Toreador, the organiza- tion of such talent has proven to be a mecca before which they prostrate themselves. Guildmasters set the tests for entrance, occasionally to reflect certain high standards (such as those laid down by the guild’s patron), resulting in a guild that is rich and strong in talent. A number of guilds are even induced to sponsor stained glass windows in churches or the mystery plays at holiday time (some after a little “encouragement”). In some cities, a subtle contest of one-upmanship has grown among the new guilds as various Cainites encourage their pets to greater heights of influence in all spheres of city life.

OR, WHAT THE BEAUTIFUL PEOPLE ARE DOING ALL THIS TIME

A 20th-century casual scholar might look back on the era of Vampire: The Dark Ages and ignorantly postulate the Toreador to be wallowing in stagnation. After all, there is absolutely nothing for them to do, right? Everyone knows that mortals are barely scraping by with life in general and that art is a luxury unaffordable by any. Therefore, what use are the Toreador, except as interesting relics of a bygone age, pretty fossils who can still remember the rhyme schemes to some old Greek paeans?

In truth, the Toreador have a great deal to busy themselves with, even in these “dark olde days.” While the arts won’t reach their full flowering until the dawn of the Renaissance, there are always places where art is welcome. Every society inevitably needs its artists, and the Toreador are always there to fill that gap. “Creation, whether it be of a sword, a song or a soul, is never an act wasted- there will always be someone inneed of it,” claims one Tuscan Toreador.

For instance, there are the cathedrals. Theseglorious monu- ments to God from His loving subjects single-handedly produce rampant blossomings of artistic expression from their very incep- tion. From the architecture to the carved stone to the stained glass to the vestments of the clergy, all around is beauty waiting to be brought forth. For Toreador wishing to serve God in some capacity and place their works at His disposal, this is the closest they can get. A few have discovered to their dismay, however, that certain sites, relics or workers can cause a great deal of discomfort, radiating True Faith that negates their attempts at devotion. Cathedrals are not built in a day, or even a year. Some can take a decade or more, depending on the flow of money, availability of workers and general weather conditions; it is entirely possible to have the same vampiric architect, stonecut- ter or glass painter working on the same building for up to a century (after a few strategic changes of identity, of course).

Even in the most repressive times, there is always a demand for music. There are fewer opportunities for musicians during these dark years, but “fewer” is a far cry from “none.” As the

Courts of Love grow in prominence, there is a need for the troubadours and minstrels to sing of the beauty of the ladies or of the bravery of the knights who quested for those ladies’ favors. The best troubadours enjoy a seller’s market for their talents, and a few Artisans can cut deals at remarkable prices to compose a particularly artful song for a lover or a biting satire for a rival. For musicians wishing to travel, villages and manors hungry for entertainment and news of the outside world are receptive to those whoarriveontheirdoorsteps.Gae1ic bards, French jongleurs, Russian skomoriki, itinerant musicians of all nationalities - all agree that one wishing to travel would do well to learn an instrument.

The Church often commissions new music for Masses. At this time, polyphonic harmony has its first outings, producing daring (for the times) new sounds in music. Monody still has its place (monastic chants are done in monody), but polyphony offers new opportunities to experiment with harmonies, blend- ing voices and instruments in different configurations.

Theatre has all but gone underground during this time. The works of Aeschylus and Euripides which graced the amphithe- aters of Greece and Rome are not gone, but largely forgotten and certainly considered too godless to produce. Most theatrical productions at this time are “passion plays,” stories dramatizing the life of Jesus, or “mystery plays” which tell other Biblical stories. Some of these plays occasionally teach moral fables and tales as well. For the illiterate peasants, this is how most learn the stories of the Bible. In the town squares and on the church steps, mystery plays are sponsored by guilds and merchants as a show of wealth. Traveling entertainers like jongleurs put on silly displays of a topsy-turvy world during Carnival time, mocking royalty and peasants alike in bawdy performances that arouse Church ire.

Brightly colored illuminated manuscripts are often works of art in and of themselves. Often gilded, with capital letters that take up large portions of the vellum or parchment page, these magnificent pieces are the crowning jewel of many a library. The Book of KeUs, produced in the eighth century, is considered the very finest example of the art. Such beauty, however, takes time to produce when one is hand-copying a manuscript in addition

BOOK ONE TOREADOR

4 to adding such pretty pictures. For Toreador, trying to work by candlelight on a small piece can be agonizing. A number use Auspex to magnify their sight enough to see their craft while not risking more than a few small candles (as light is expensive and risks a potentially disastrous frenzy in the middle of work).

Painting has shied away from too much realism since the Roman times; such is considered to be approaching the work of God. While the artist himself might not mind, the purchaser is unlikely to willingly take on something potentially blasphe- mous. Perspective is not entirely unknown, but it is not always used, resulting in pictures of towers topped with ladies as large as they or cities small enough to be vaulted by the horses of the invading armies. Likewise, portraiture is affected by this lack of perspective and realism. Faces appear flat, occasionally some- what distorted. It’s enough to give someone a general idea, but few are likely to mistake the picture for the real thing.

Needlework, the creation of tapestries and lace, and fashion (although considered to be “lesser“ arts by some of the elders) enjoy great popularity. Most clans admit (however grudgingly) that even when wearing the simplest of clothes, Toreador look wonderful. In the Church and royal courts, magnificent vest- ments utilize gold and silver and bullion, or rich fabrics like silks from Cathay or brocade from the Levant. While the Artisans abide by sumptuary laws in the mortal world, it is quite another matter at their own courts; one Ventrue chronicler reports that, “. . .such was the magnificence of the gowns worn, the multitude of buttons upon the ladies’ sleeves, and the trims of gold crusted with gems, that I fair believed myself in a field of living flowers.” Such sumptuousness also results in a subtle one-upmanship among some to be the first to use a new trim or fabric, or even create anew style. Sometime during this era, an anonymous little seamstress has the idea to cut her mistress’ dress with curved armholes and sleeve caps, resulting in a better fit and silhouette. Current speculation claims that the seamstress in question was in the employ of a Cainite lady, for the design was not seen among mortals until this lady began to wear her special styles to mortal courts. Daring fashion, however, has a way of riling the Church fathers, who believe that such vanity reflects a lack of care for the soul.

What of the written word? While books are expensive to reproduce, they are still being written, often available only to the wealthy patrons who frequently commission them. Chivalry owes agreat debt to Marie de France’s romances and Chretien de Troyes’ stories of the Knights of the Round Table. Andreas Cappallanus, the author of The Art ofcourtly Love, is venerated by every Toreador who ever attended a court or wooed a lover (although he is privately sneered at by elder Toreador for his 1 parodying of aid). Bede the Venerable also bears a great deal of quiet Toreador worship, less for his Churchly writings and more for his preservation of numerous old tales, including Bemy. Not everyone is interested in sacred art at this time. While it is considered to be the higher and “nobler“ thing, there is more to creation than putting halos on everything. Secular music

certainly exists, performed and largely committed to memory by often illiterate musicians, who sing it for peasants or for royal entertainment. Not a few suchsongs are rife withdouble entendre, delivering important messages to Cainite listeners while amus- ing the kine. When the secular music is written down by monks in the ihterest of preservation, many of the very bawdiest lyrics and refiiains are replaced with nonsense syllables (resulting in things lke‘“Heyho, hey nonino\!”“Down-a-down”andthe like). Those \*rigs bearing Cainite stamps are gently (or less so) rewritteh into more acceptable-sounding lyrics; a few simply go unchast missing. 1, Bored thoughts monks in the and margins schoolboys of the scribble texts they daydreams are supposed and

to be redding. Folk tales and heroic epics from days past (such as Beowulfi The Mubinogion and The Vaininwinen) are filled with descriptions of gory battlefields and witches’ charnel houses, flesh-eading monsters and the fatal tricks of faeries; some Artisan storytellkrs become so engrossed in the blood and hunger of the monster6 of their tales that they need to feed immediately after. Celerity in gener Some i to 1 look Toreador allow on them this speak unfavorably. more of using speed their or The a finer Disciplines, Disciplines, touch, but particularly they Artisans claim, do not ehhance the art, but can occasionally muddy it. Speed from Ceilerity may allow for more work to be accomplished during the night, but the critics among them say that Celerity- driven work is frequently sloppy or lacking in fine detail. Using Auspexdogive one afiner touchanda keenereye results indetails that are hear-blinding, such as the glitter of buttons on the figure of a brooich in a portrait; many times, most mortals’ eyes simply cannot absorb such things, and so such work is done for Cainite patrons THE ART done.

OF ART Artiat this time is considered to exist solely for the glorification of God in one way or another. Whether it be in the for4 of the music that rings through the cathedral, the glorious kained glass windows, a singer’s achingly beautiful voice or beople acting the part of angels at the birth of Christ, art come6 from God, and Man is expected to return the favor. The Torthador, however, find this simple equation to be most problemdtic as a result of their unliving state. Art is meant to glorify the works of God. The Toreador create art with the same purpose in mind, but do so as vampires (creatures not of God and therefore damned). Will their art be considered glory to God? Not according to the thought of the day. So what is left to the Artisans, deprived (and perhaps depraved) of their art’s raison d’etre?

If their art is refused by God, then for whom should the Toreador create? What is the worth of their creations? It is one of the most explosive questions posed in Elysium, and the debates are fierce. Many Toreador insist that they should still respect God’s wishes and create for Him, even if He rejects their creations (as He rejected Caine’s sacrifice). These Toreador feel that their works may be the very things which redeem them in His eyes. Others feel that they should shift

WBELLUS SANGUINIS 2 r )

their focus and make their art for those who can appreciate it, namely other Cainites and perhaps mortals of rare perception. Man and Cainite do some very fine work without God’s inter- vention, these Toreador postulate, and therefore, why should they be left without recourse to art? If the art of the Cainites cannot be given to God, as it is a sullied thing, then why not give it to those who can and will smile upon it? The argument results in a constant tension between the artist’s need for recognition and the Cainite search for redemption.

Such humanistic thoughts, though, are supposed to be kept strictly to the Elysia and the shadows of one’s own mind. Charges of heresy are easy to fabricate in these suspicious times, and a few Toreador who take their artistic rivalries too far have found that a warning of seditious thoughts, whispered to the proper au- thorities, can remove a rival with a minimum of fuss or guilt. Those Artisans who do dispatch their rivals thus (and are found out) had either best have plans to travel or extremely wealthy patrons who can support them for a long while to come. Friendly rivalry and competition is one thing, but betrayal of a clan member is considered treason of the first water, and is usually met with drastic response. The clan believes as a whole that no art should be destroyed, and destruction of an artist is nothing more than a pre-emptive strike against everything she ever would have produced. After all, who knows what the victim would have created in time, if his carved altar would have crowned a royal chapel or if her song would have moved an intransigent enemy to tears?

It has been said that artists are duty-bound to sabotage the familiar, forever testing the borders in their attempts at creation. It is one thing to carve a piece of stone to look like a saint in robes, but someone looking to do more than simply imitate what has gone before seeks out new techniques and tests the border of “acceptability” in the search for something better than an imitation. That being said, artists are frequently found in the company of rogues, whether they are aware of it or not, and oft end up surrounded by scholars, philosophers, gamblers, whores, thieves and libertines - dangerous people to associate with. In an era in which the clergy can deem art to be a threat to God, and in which the putative divine order is strictly enforced by those who benefit from its current construction, artists who stand outside the order and work at what their muse commands are by definition heretical. There are a few small places here and there within the “natural order” where one might have room to stretch, but for the large part, doing so is not advisable. There is comfort and safety (not to mention power) in the familiar, the routine, the accepted order. Stepping outside that order risks chaos and invites trouble (such as suspicious clergymen looking for any excuse to light the witchfires). Most young Toreador take their risks haltingly, looking for approval from mentors, patrons and elders before they step too far beyond the bounds previously established. Older Artisans, having lived through many changes of social mores, simply continue as they always have; in their view, the times will change soon enough if one waits long enough.

I ) )

3yy bear Tercival. 1 thank you fir y o u r acceptance of my .polo@ regarbing the inci2ent a fortnight ago. You have askeb of me an explanation of how such a thing cod2 happen. anb unber the circumstances of your own calling anb our frienbship. I bel obhgateb t o r e p k . 1 shall dam you nod that Tam no scholar, anb 1 mereLy spin conjecture anb repeat the theories most pLausibLy put firth by m8oWn kinb. deredith. Ibo present the fruits of the past evenings’ stuby.

Art of any sort has aldays helb a beep fiscination fir us. more so than fir any others of our kid. \*one can seem to recall a time When it has not, even those Who claim to have heb converse With ourprogenitor. W e seek it out. revel in it, support it by Whatever means necessaty. brink it i n anb sup at it Like it be fiob anb Lover. %hap it is even greater than vitae t o us. for 1 have hearb of those of my clan Who have attempteb to become ascetics anb Later Went mab fir Lack of it.

1 believe that art is not mere& the finisheb piece o r b \[ & accompLi o r Why shoulb the Toreabor alone see anb unberstanb this - it is the act of creation. of bringing firth the neW from the great mubby sea of i2eas. thoughts, recollection. motiva- tions anb emotion. T h e creation that gives us a n e d piece of Work leaves i t s mark upon that piece. as animal tracks in ned- fillen snodor Writing across a fresh page. F o r my odn part, When listening to a piece of Well-bone music. gazing into a Love& face or contemplting the architecture ofa church. Ifinb myself Looking fir those marks of creation, seeing What Was Left With each sdeey of the brush as it Were. imagining the process i t s e K Wonbering What W i l l y e t come about as a result of this beauty in the Worlb. A n b . as my thoughts subben(y spin off into themselves. When 1 aWaken, time has passeb Without me.

1 have hearb from others that there is some sort of mystical bonb in our bLoob that cries out fir beauty anb art as much as it boes fir vitae. Icannot say Whether this is truthful. although the mabness of those Who have been dithout either fir too Lon8 \~rroulb seem t o support this. A n o t h e r suggestion 1 recentLy hearb Was that the clan is curseb because of the g a n i v of i t s fiunber. A r i k e l . She Was utterLy enamoreb of her own beauty. anb refuseb t o surrounb herself With anything but beaut.. One bay. ‘Father Caine bib call her to attenb him. anb she refuseb. so Lost Was she in the beauty of ayoung slave brought t o her. Caine bib call her again anb she refuseb him again. On the thirb refusal. Caine himself bi2 curse her t o be a slave t o that Which she Worshippeb. even above him. 1 cannot vouch fir the theoty‘s vaLi2il;Y. but it is amusing. no?

The nhht gro Ws short. goob frienb. anb 1 am calleb b3 my chamberlain that 1 have guests.

3y this hanb anb iu LoveeJ name. Isouba

Who is she, you ask, the lady drawn there on the ivory? Ah, you have found Annelies - the work is my own vain effort to capture what God hath wrought. Yes, I did love her, and still do. Do you think that when we accept the Embrace that we lose all that ever made us?Weare theproductsofourartist-why should we not retain something of the grand artificer Himself, even if His hand no longer works upon us?

While it is not to say that the other clans do not feel love, few would argue that we are the most passionate of Caine’s children. Immersing ourselves in art and mortal society as we do, how could we avoid loving those we are surrounded by? Some have said that the “love” in question is merely more of the same courtliness and chivalric behavior that we have been working all this while, but those who are fortunate enough to find it would never mistake it for anything else.

The dichotomy of the seeking and the having, however, is nothing less than sheer anguish. The Book of Nod - indeed, Caine’s own words - says that Cainites should not seek love among mortals. According to both the strictures of the Church and our own words, Cainites are considered damned and un- clean, thought to exist beyond the grace of love. And yet, the lure is there, the chance for redemption in the eyes of at least one, and that lure is perhaps the most powerful temptation every devised. The notion of loving, and being loved in return, is one that often drives many of us to amazing feats of creation and bravery. The Court of Love would not flourish so if we refused to believe in love. And what of courtly love? It would seem to be the ideal solution to thisquandary. At its most basic, courtly love proposes that aknight hold a lady (particularly an unattainable one) as the pinnacle of virtue and beauty, and do great deeds in her name, all for the chance of a smile, a word of praise or a gentle glance. The lady, in return, is expected to support her “suitor,” but is not required to return physical proof of love (a kiss or an embrace). As physicality supposedly should not enter into the equation, chivalric love ought to support both the vampiric knight pining for a lovely mortal woman and the Cainite lady who has caught the eye of a mortal knight. Speaking as one who has sought such refuge in the chivalric courts, however, I find that it satisfies only part of the need - much like sitting at a sumptuous banquet, surrounded the smells of every dish I have ever enjoyed, and being unable to eat a morsel of it.

Our nobility often have particular considerations with regard to love and marriage. lJnmarried nobility are regarded with suspicion, and a noble who is without an heir of his flesh risks his lands being seized by another with a dynasty. Some places do allow for adopted heirs, but alas, only the uncivilized continue this custom. Many of us may take spouses to allay suspicions, particularly if we are maintaining our mortal lives. Sometimes the spouse is told the truth, and sometimes she is not.

Some of us have gone so far as to have surrogates assist in “bearing” offspring (such as the mortal wife of a Toreador lord laying with her husband’s mortal brother to bear her husband a child). This is a dangerous gamble, though, as the information in the wrong hands could result in charges of incest or illegitimacy at ascension time.

Andwhatoftheasceticsyou’veheardsomuchabout?Whatofour clergy and those dedicated Cainites who seek the Lord’s forgiveness by serving Him? Surely they must give up the notion of love as well, you are thinking. My childe, if that were me, then what adull life this would be indeed. Surely your sire told the story of Peter Abelard and Heloise, who, like ourselves, were forced to reconsider the notion of any sort of physical consummation. While both may have given themselves up to the Church upon the frustration of their designs, do not think for a moment that their passions simply died like a frostbitten flower. Their ardor remained quite alive, but necessarily tempered into something more spiritual in nature -the love of two souls bound in mutual pain and finding passion in their heavenly delirium. I have been told there is something quite similar among the ascetics. Some of those who must maintain “chastity” take up Marianism with a zealotry that has grown to frighten some Churchmen, worshipping the Blekd Mother with a zeal that quite outstrips the thought of God and Christ. I dare say some might see the Heavenly Father as a potential rival\! Others turn to mysticism in their lonely travels and travails, seeking to embrace the ideals of loving God by many means, and in that mysticism, they speak of the relations between God and Man in a variety of terms. One ideal that is so often used comes from the lips of Christ Himself, that Man is like a bride and God’s spirit the bridegroom at a chaste and spiritual wedding. I have read poetry from some of these chaste mystics, and they could just as easily be a song from a passionate knight to his lovely lady. “The Song of Solomon” would be the most familiar to you, but I would also suggest any writings of Leonidas of Athos, if you ever happen to come across them. A word of caution, tho’ -some of these mystics are considered in the minds of some to be nigh unto heretics, and you never know who will fall under the shadow. If you keep writings of these scribblers, be certain that you have a god hiding place in which to store their creations.

The other supernatural races may well entice us to lose our hearts. In Ireland, not a few of us have fallen in love with the faeries who came to dance on Midsummer’s Night, and some of the Fair Folk return the favor. Ghostly lovers or passionate witches may also bring one to his knees - I recall one such witch, with hair the color of the forgotten sun and eyes as blue as a summer sky. She had met young Gervase during the dancing of a feast day, and they were sun and fire from the start. Unfortunately, when it was learned that Gervase was spending his time with a pretty (and mortal) witch, Rosalba, one of the women of the clan, went nearly mad with jealousy and hunted down the unfortunate mortal (and Gervase, I recall) with the fury of a beast. Such matches, when they occur (and occur they do) are considered star-crossed from the beginning, and all the lovers may look forward to is flight and deception as they wait for those few moments when they can be together. As for Gervase and his witch, thetwoeventuallyfledandIheardnomoreofthem.Atbesttheywere driven out - at worst, they were pursued and killed. Cruel? Unfor- tunately, while we may sigh over tales of lovers parted and the like,

we are not very good at tolerating them among our own. Witness the practice of disparaging, used to diminish the status of one’s rivals. When, for example Countess B is disparaged for marrying a penniless knight, he is not raised to her station. Instead, she is lowered to his.

Annelies, you ask? I knew her when we were both mere mortals, time and ago. As I said, the portrait is not a particularly good one. It is difficult to make a life study when the subject is a hundred years dead. AFTER CQUIR’F WITH LADY CATRDNA LINDSAY

Come in, darling, and close the door behind you. You looked splendid tonight, and carried yourself with such grace\! I was very proud to acknowledge you as one of my own. Come, sit with me, for I have much to tell you. Now that you have passed your first test as my childe and a Cainite, I believe that you are ready to undertake your next step, one that is your birthright as a Toreador. When you were mortal, were you familiar with the Court of Love?“Not as such,” you say, which I will take for a no. Very well, then - consider this your first lesson.

The Courts of Love, founded by our own Eleanor of Aquitaine, are one of the brightest flowerings of our work. Within the shelter of the court, noble ladies and knights play out their games of courtship and love, giving rise to the romantic

images of questing knights and beautiful ladies that our trouba- dours make their living singing of. However, not a few of those knights and ladies play at politics while they dally with their “lovers,” and the innocents so dallied with further our agendas without realizing it.

The court arranges itself thus: There is a single Queen of Love, often selected by popular accord, who leads the court and creates the rules by which the games are played. It is she who doles out punishments to the erring suitors or encourages the ladies, and occasionally teaches the new and inexperienced. She is looked to as the example of beauty and wit, and the court follows her. Those who cluster in our courts are usually acknowledged to be the best and brightest of their “mortal” courts.

Now, how does the court itselffunction? Each is different in its specifics, of course, but all have a general pattern so that one may travel between them and rarely lose one’s footing as a guest. A knight sets his eyes and heart upon a lady, and seeks to win her favor however he can. He rarely announces his intentions before the entire court; after all, Cappallanus reminds us that love made public rarely endures, not to mention the embarrassment to the lady if she dislikes him. The knight is expected to perform deeds that will honor his lady, to undertake tasks at the behest of the queen or his lady, to endure without complaint the teasing and long waitsfor her attention, to treat his “beloved” as nothing less than the summit of womanly perfection always, and to brave infinite dangers for a gentle glance or smile. At every step of the

way, troubadours sing of the knight’s accomplishments to per- suade the lady’s thoughts and heart to look favorably upon her suitor or to change the attitude of the court. In the end, the lady may refuse or accept the suit asshe chooses with little loss offace, although a lady who is too capricious may lose more allies than gain them through this dance. An acceptance of love does not usually result in physical consummation, although it has been known to happen. A knight may court a married lady, with the understanding that he must accept her wishes regarding her husband. No doubt many an unhappily married young lady seeks escape from a loutish or elderly husband by selecting from among the young stallions, but I shall give further discourse on that particular series of steps later.

It is here that chivalry blooms, our attempt to bring a measure of grace and honor to a largely honorless and brutal world. The chivalric ideal demands that knights never strike an unarmed opponent, that they maintain themselves as examples to the peasants and that women should be cherished and protected for the beauty and grace they bring to the world. The values of humility and piety are encouraged as well, often with most surprising results. Why, recently I saw how Sir Julien, one of our own, began to display a remarkable quality of.. . dare I say, Faith? In the pursuit of his darling - who is gentle and pious without being silly - he had begun to examine his own beliefs and to attend midnight Mass more frequently. We shall see what that brings about; no doubt there will be some who will be quite interested to see how this came to be.

But now what was I saying.. . ah, yes, chivalry. It has become quite entwined with courtly love, and certain concessions de- manded of a knight in battle are likewise expected in the court. Love that is demanded or clumsily presented is seen as not worth having. A target too easily won is likewise valueless, as isone taken by force. A lover should wish for no other embraces than that granted by his own beloved, and his every thought should end with her. The object of the court is less about obtaining a goal than the road to achieve that goal, a philosophy not too much different than the Viae. It is my understanding that chivalry has become a Via unto itself for a number of our knights, and that they hold to it as fast as any other Via. I scoff at those who claim the courts are useless or frivolous. By these gardens and offices we give them men, not beasts who claim to be so, and by our men’s works shall you know them. Would these sneering lords, sated with their evening meals at the donjon, be so quick to sneer knowing that a number of their fledges give a great deal to join our festivities? There will comeadaywhentheywillregretbeingsounlettered, whenall they know is how to swing a sword but not how to sheath it.

For us, the courts provide unparalleled opportunities. Ar- ranging matches, encouraging or discouraging chosen suitors, putting the best troubadours to work against a rival, even rising to the position of queen and dictating how the court will run - all are works worthy of the attentions ofboth artist and Artisan. Here, where the stakes are relatively small, the young ones come to learn, and to garner the lessons that serve them well in the outer world. One ofourown, Lady Isoudade Blaise, presides over

a Court of Love, a smaller one than those of Asuitaine and Flanders, and by its workings and participants has come to have far more influence than many would suspect. When one has would-be participants begging to enter, one can command certain entrance fees, if you follow my meaning. I understand that a young Ventrue lordling paid not only in gold but in his master’s goodwill for his place at Isouda’s court; rest assured that this gift will not be idly squandered.

A great many of us take advantage of the chance to create matches between knights and ladies, with the expectation that these unions may later be used in the “outer” world. Case in point: A lady unhappy with her husband (who is an enemy of the Toreador,perhaps thepawnofacainiteenemy) is invited to join the court, and is promptly set upon by a small bevy of knights. The Toreador queen of the court encourages her to favor one knight in particular, or the knight is given a few hints and help while his rivals receive none. A ghoul serves as the go-between for the lovers, perhaps even as the troubadour for the knight, funneling as much dormation to his masters as he does between the lovers. Things proceed so swimmingly that the lady accepts her suitor’s favor, and the couple eventually engages in physical consummation. Now the true game begins - the affair may be revealed to the world at large to disgrace the husband as a cuckold, kept secret through blackmail, or the lady’s out-of- wedlockchild may propagateanother lineandnot herhusband’s. A lady caught infigrantt too many times may find herself at the receiving end of Toreador blackmail, forced to funnel money or shelter to her tormentor in order to keep the affair secret. The knight may also find himself in trouble -he may be forced to lend his sword ann to a Toreador cause, sent into service as a spy, or even betrayed to local justice, which may do anything from executing him to sending him on Crusade. Depending on how desperately the lady or knight must keep the affair quiet, he or she can give up rather a lot to courtly blackmail. One such occurred about a year ago - the poor fool in question was a lady who was “found out” with her favorite knight, an act which led to her being with child. As the lady in question was married, and her husband away on business, it did make for a rather delicate situation In return for shelter at her keep for several months, one of our clan caused the servants to believe that their lord, and her husband, had returned briefly to lay with his wife at the proper time. The child has since been born, a fine boy who will inherit the lands and title due him; the fullness of time will see how well our work has paid off.

Toreador troubadours pitted against mortal counterparts may humiliate their rivals without a second thought or groom successors for greatness. Likewise, they may casually “edit” lyrics of ballads on the grounds that the words of the tune “didn’t scan properly’’ or some such, or embroider the truth as wildly as a noblewoman embroiders a tapestry. A suitor dismissed (whether mortal or Cainite) may be suitably in- flamed to cause trouble for his rival or the lady who spurned him. And as gossip be the meat and milk of the court, how can one tell from whence the plots originated?

BOOKONETOREADOR \\

IS SANGUINIS 2 -

THE CAINITE CODE OF CHIVALRY

The Cainites who espouse chivalry often follow the Via Equitum, using it as the basis for their personal codes. The members of the newer orders have taken to modifying the Via according to their personal beliefs, popular writings and agreements of the members. By the time some Cainites are finished, the code's original intent is hardly recognizable. What follows is an approximation of the original.

1-Thou shalt be honorable and fair-minded in thy dealings with others. 2-Thou shalt stand firm and recoil not before thine enemy.

3-Thou shalt respect those above thee.

4-Thou shalt succor and aid the weak if they call upon thee.

5-Thou shalt hold the honor of thy lady, thy lord and thy charges fast to thee. If this honor be lost, thou must avenge it.

6-Thou shalt regard all men with equal merit.

7-Thou shalt shelter the women of this world with thy sword arm, thy strength and thy honor.

8

Thou shalt not break thy word.

9-Thou shalt not abuse the trust and charge placed in thee.

10

Thou shalt treat thy opponent with respect due a peer.

Of course, the code has been reinterpreted many times to foster a particular group's views and wishes. For instance, Item Eight has been interpreted with the corollary"...to thy fellow Cainites," or only to nobility: what one does with regard to mortals, peasants or animals is another matter. Likewise, Item Six has been rewritten with "men" indicating only Christian Cainite males of noble birth, all Christian noblemen (Cainite or mortal), every born male, or every "person" (which could exclude Moslems, Gangrel, Malkavians, peasants and whoever else doesn't fit the knight's conception of affairs). The current claim is that the code is but a borrowing from something much older. The attributed author, one Aloyius D'Etienne, has hedged about his inspiration, but in one of his less guarded moments mentioned a set of fragile scrolls that held a code written in a curious hand, the gist of which he found to his liking.

For those who uphold the code in its highest form, their clanmates' casual rearrangement of the "truth" of the code is seen as a violation of everything that chivalry is meant to represent, namely a system of dealing with one's peers, superiors, foes and underlings with honor and efficiency. Those who interpret the code too liberally may find themselves being hunted by their fellow Cainites for their crimes and forced to "quest" to cleanse their stained honor. These code-breakers often do not return, as they are sent on tasks that are often designed to kill the quester-searches for holy relics or pilgrimages are common. Those who survive their tests and return to Cainite life are rarely wholly accepted back; often their experiences change and harden them, sometimes driving them down another Via, sometimes sending them into the arms of Golconda.

IN THE HALL OF DON HECTOR GONZAGA

Enter, childe, and do not hang about the door like a starving dog. You are a Toreador, after all; your sire would not be pleased to see such mopery from you.

So, you came to learn of the orders, then. Do you seek entrance to their ranks? Hmmph, they do not take those as new to the blood as yourself- they wait to see if you will trip over your sword-belt first before they consider you. Better to let you skewer yourself playing at knight in the courtyard than on the battlefield. Still, I know something of your sire, and know that it was he who sent you. Sit there, and listen, then, for I dislike repeating myself.

The knightly orders of Cainites are among the first to wholeheartedly embrace chivalry as an ideal and a belief system. Some of our scholars speculate that the Toreador of these orders were also the creators of the Via Equitum, and there's little to contradict the speculation. Where the orders themselves came from is another matter. I've heard every bird-brained theory imaginable, so I am uninterested in further speculation on the matter. The orders themselves typically claim divine ordinance or inspiration from the Hospitallers and Templars, among whose numbers you will find a few of our own.

Some Cainites find the very idea of Cainite knightly orders to be foolish or misguided. Others are intrigued at the notion of a familiar kine organization modified to meet our particular needs. For now, I will speak only of those which

BOOK ONE: TOREADOR

27

have been founded by and are ruled by Toreador. Members of other clans may petition for entrance, or, if they show the necessary stomach for it, they may be invited to join, but outsiders are afforded few mistakes. In the case of the Chanticleerans, the outsider’s first error is usually his last. The White Company - Modeling themselves after such flowers of knighthood as Galahad and Parsifal, these Cainites hold themselves to strict vows of honor, obedi- ence to God and celibacy (wherein they refuse to drink from women for pleasure or have intimate relations of any kind with Cainite women). They select their members only after observing them in the field and receiving testi- monials as to character and honor. These Cainites deal with the honorless and oathbreakers swiftly. Most identify themselves with a white sash or unmarked white tabard.

The Fellowship of Our Lady -This band of knights is small, numbering at most nine, but they are remarkable for their devotion to their ideals of Marianism and the protection of women. This unusual choice is explained by their leader, one William Grey, who claims to have been blessed with a vision of the Virgin when he was on Crusade. According to him, she charged him with his mission to protect and assist women, a mission he believes will cleanse him of his vampiric stain. The fellowship does not drink from women except under direst circumstances, and believes that each woman should be treated as the sister of the Queen of Heaven. William’s recent quarrel with a Ventrue prince of Avignon may have undone them, however; the Fellowship’s knights are now under suspi- cion of heresy, and Marianism in general has become highly suspect in the mortal world. Most carry white lilies, the sign of the Virgin, somewhere on their personal de- vices or their tack.

The Order of Chanticleer - The order’s name refers to a wily rooster of peasant folk tales. The order is a more serious matter than children’s tales, however, using the rooster’s name to identify their order as hunters of demons (specifically the Baali). Chanticleerans carry the sign of a rising sun on their shields to symbolize the cleansing light of morning, or wear a rooster’s plume in their helmets. Many attempt to push their endurance to stay awake to greet the dawn, retreating only upon the sun’s full en- trance. The knights’ zeal, xenophobia and overbearing piety have won them few allies, leaving those who call on them with the dubious task of deciding whether the illness or the cure is less bearable. The order’s fight against the Baali has brought them into direct conflict with the Toreador’s most decadent elders who lair in the South, pinioning the Chanticleerans between two tenets of the Code. Until a decision is made, they hover in uncertainty, unable to make a move in either direction, and exposing themselves to the carefully attentive allies of the Baali.

One might associate forbidding tomes of secret lore with the Tremere and Cappadocians, but most would never consider the Toreador to be repositories of such. While the Tremere pore over their grimoires of hermetic lore and the Cappadocians probe the mysteries of death, the Toreador keep the old libraries of Egypt, Greece and Rome alive.

As the classical world collapsed under the weight of the onslaught of barbarians hordes and the excesses of unbalanced emperors, many Cainites rushed to keep all extant learning from collapsing into the grave with it, often hoarding their own personal collections. In tombs, cellars, musty crawlspaces and caves, the learning of cen- turies past is collected in scrolls, clay tablets, fragments of stone and papyrus and books. For now, the Cainites are content to hide their treasures away, waiting for something to signal that they may return these works to the world at large. The greatest of these secret libraries is the collection housed in the dry cool air of a cave on Malta, tended there by a Toreador known only as Simon. Few know if he has a surname, although he has signed some letters as “ben- Jacob,” a reference to the mortal past he refuses to speak of. Some clues in Simon’s speech and manner have led to speculation that he was Embraced in the Middle East during the Roman occupation, perhaps as early as the time of Christ, and had been well-educated for his time.

Simon receives few visitors, and the mortal knightly order that headquarters on Malta serves to keep the idly curious away. Those who do venture to the house Simon keeps often come on business; unexpected guests are not welcome unless they can convince him of the urgency of their business. If a traveler visits in search of a particular text, he is asked to wait while Simon fetches it from the cave. Only a privileged handful have ever been permitted to follow him down the winding trail that leads through the thickets and into the multi-tiered cavern where the wisdom of the ages rests.

The cavern itself consists of numerous pocketlike chambers connected by a single tunnel, all surrounding a main gallery. O n some walls, the remnants of old paintings may be seen by the flickering light of lamps - human handprints and animistic creatures painted in faded indigo and carnelian. In the main gallery is an enormous stone slab, scored with knife-strikes and marks, and often used as a reading table. Directly above the appropriated altar are more paintings, these showing spirals and starlike figures. Simon claims the gallery and chambers are unchanged from the evening he claimed them.

The first chamber houses mostly minor Greek and Roman works, largely histories and records, with a few old orations and dry poetry thrown in for good measure. The second chamber bears strange inscriptions of words written in charcoal and more indigo paints; some claim that a number of the words are written in Enochian, the tongue of the First and Second Cities. Poetry, drama and diaries spanning centuries of Greek and Roman life fill this chamber. Another holds Arabic writings of all sorts, from poetry and religion to royal decrees. The fourth, somewhat lower in level, ho1ds“barbarian” works, including aset ofwoodensticks inscribed with Druidic glyphs; a leering human face adorned with animallike ears and teeth watches visitors here. Below the fourth, in a tiny room, the doorpost of which is inscribed with Hebrew letters, Simon keeps a prized collection of Hebrew and Aramaic works. A sixth chamber, painted in carnelian warding symbols and with a Seal of Solomon upon the floor, holds the darker treasures of Simon’s collection - occult lore, demonol- ogy texts, erotica, and manuals of warfare and torture.

One chamber directly off the gallery remains a mys- tery even to Simon himself. Blocked off by a single massive stone inscribed with the symbol of a cedar tree, the cham- ber has been sealed since Simon took possession of the place. He has never been behind the stone, and has refused all offers to have the place excavated. If it is a burial chamber, no irate spirits have made their displeasure known. Simon has sensed a presence now and again while near the stone, but has no other idea what might lurk within the chamber. For now, the room is allowed to keep its secrets.

The scholar is said to take small collecting excursions away from Malta to Salerno, Bologna, Palermo and Naples, where he talks of books with his mortal “peers” and with his Cainite kin of graver matters. He does not answer summons to court, and wise Toreador do not attempt such. He has grown to great influence by virtue of his age and his work, and as such has earned his right to privacy. Indeed, Simon has a number of powerful patrons and supporters who prefer that his collection remain undisturbed, but the scholar himself is quite capable of defending his privacy and his possessions. Once, a loutish Ventrue thought to teach the “doddering elder” a lesson and tore a prized Hebrew parchment to shreds before Simon’s eyes. What happened next has remained a secret between the Ventrue and Simon, but the mention of Simon’s name causes the Ventrue to cringe.

The new universities have become Simon’s most re- cent “pet project.” Supplied with copies of a number of his works, several teachers shape young mortal minds on a study course directed specifically by Simon through the texts “found” in his library. He seems to take great delight in choosing what will and will not be taught, as if he is enjoying aperverse revenge or advancing an agenda known only to him. Other elders who are likewise taking interest in the universities rarely interfere with Simon’s whims, either out of friendship or a healthy respect for him.

OTHERS ASSAMITES ... My teacher had been largely silent on my progress, except to criticize me, I had begun to believe that 1 was indeed the fool that Jacques called me for this quest to Andalusia. I had been at the forge for the better part of the evening, striving to 1 master the stroke that Master Ibrahim has said is the basis for all I will learn. The muster entered, and did inspect my work, and spoke but little of it, merely pointing out where I had pulkd too short or had struck too hard. 1 was as much angered with myself as with he, and when he had left, 1 was much downcast. Then, clan by there his swarthy came a skin, visitor and to the he seemed forge, another surprised of by the my

Assassin 1 ’ appearance. We exchanged talk, and he inspected my work as well, speaking words of praise, the first I had heard in months. I had not thought they would be such balm to my soul. Then he said how rare it was that Master Ibrahim tolerated the presence of withme an infidel .... - I must possess skill indeed if he took such pains

\- Denis D’Orleans, from his personal recollections

4-78

Many Toreador have been drawn to the Holy Land since before Joshua first marshaled his troops with trumpets, at- tracted by the divinely inspired architecture and art contained within. As one visitor remarked, “It seems that everything they do becomes art in some way, whether it be the way they make war, forge a sword, or paint tiles in a mosque.” The residents of the Levant see these foreigners with justifiable suspicion, but the desire to share knowledge often overcomes distrust. In the end, many artisans (and Artisans) are pleased to have such willing pupils as the westernToreador are apt to be. During the era of the Abassid Caliphates, the exchange program between western Toreador and eastern Assamites thrived, and the very finest Toreador crafters can still boast of some time of study in the Holy Land. In Europe, Moorish outposts in Spain see the occasional Artisan visitor, depend- ing of course on the current state of relations between the Lasombra and Toreador

Assamites and Toreador would have a great deal more to talk about, if both sides could be persuaded to see the other without the blinders inflicted by their progenitors. Toreador love of philosophy would find a fitting match among those Assamites who debate the issues of the Q’uran as well as the older theories of the Greeks, while Assamite assassins could well use the webs of contacts and favors that the Toreador spin to their advantage.

BRUIAH

Hear them now, how they cry at the gates\! My brothers in arms, take up your spears And know that this is the last of all nights. Already I hear Tamar, the Rose of the White Wall, wailing for her lost one,

The Scholar Relan, first to fall, her name upon his lips. The war-beasts, and the creatures they ride, batter the gates again\!

Let us all die together then, if they will not let us live\! - C u r r a n o’Liam, Clan Brujah, from the epic “Dirge of Carthage”

Memories of Carthage and Dacia still ring loud for many of the elder Toreador and the childer they raised to the tradition of humanism. The elders of the clans continue to debate philosophy and history when they meet, and elder Brujah are frequent visitors to Toreador courts. Some of the oldest among both clans maintain friendships dating back to the founding of Carthage, or even earlier. Unwise is the neonate who probes too deeply into the roots ofsuch alliances, though.

Many of the younger Brujah who have become enamored of chivalry find themselves among Toreador, occasionally to the Zealots’ disgruntlement. The Toreador insistence on manners and decorum can nettle even the most reasonable scholar-soldier, and many’s the Brujah currently on quest as punishment for losing his temper in front of the Queen of Love. Likewise, the Toreador emphasis on certain standards of conduct for battle is even more of a thorn in the Brujah‘s collective side. Having grown used to a certain measure of egalitarianism from their clan, young Brujah who were not of “noble birth” often receive a rude shock when confronted with the elitism of the Toreador. C APPADOCIANS ... I had thought I would but briefly enter to make a quick study of the decaying c q s e fur my latest rendition of ‘Death and the Maiden.’ After aU, the air in such places is noisome and just unhealthy, turning even away fur from those the like body ourselves I had chosen who need for my not examination

taste it. I was

when it sat up and spoke to me, inquiring as to my purpose. Once I was had of recovered the same my great ghastly family shock, as I, and the cad.aver proceeded assured to demonstrate

me that it

something of its powers by resuming a form m e familiar, which was that ofa young man just beyond the bloom of youth, with skin as cold and pak as that of one advanced in years within the Embrace. We proceeded to discourse on the nature of death, and such was his skiU at debate that I nigh forgot the morning’s approach. He suggested that I spend the day within the confines of the crypt, which I did, having littk othe-r choice. When I rose next, he had gone, but I returned to find a strange fire suffusing my m hghts e a wi& , ‘Death to and my the strunge Maiden’ encounter.. having become . .

less a picture and

\- Sebastien of Tours, excerpt from his memoirs

When they can be dragged away from their books, \~. Cappadocians can make remarkable partners for discourse on mortality and temporality. Most Toreador shudder at the thought of death and the afterlife; to a clan obsessed with beauty, the Cappadocians are uncomfortable remind- ers of all life’s fragility. Rare is the Toreador who can stand a Graverobber’s company for long, though. Some Epicure- ans are repulsed by their corpselike appearances, and refuse to stay long in the same room with them. However, Cappadocian insights into death provide the more morbid members of the clan with much food for thought. Recently a noted Toreador stonecutter began to cultivate interest in the Cappadocians, for reasons few wish to speculate on. In truth, he has been commissioned to carve gargoyles, and has gone to the Clan of Death, hoping that they might have something to tell him about the inhabitants of Hell. So far, his meetings have been quite informative .... GANGREL I know them well, brothers and brother-beasts, Know them by their elf-locks and the spiral They have painted in blue upon their breasts. They make songs in their throats like the wolf-songs That salute the moon when she shows her face. When they sing their battle-songs - cry aloud, mortals, And hide your eyes in fear of those that flash by, Killers of the black Formorian host Slayers of Rome’s shining ten thousand ’ Whose war-cries are better than a lover’s sighs\! - Padraic, “Song of Brendan” When discussing Gangrel, most Toreador tend use words like “noble,” “remarkable,” “savage” - words that could be used with equal accuracy to describe animals in the forest. As far as the bulk of Toreador are concerned, there’s not much difference. The only places where the Artisans and Animals have reached any sort of under- standing is the British Isles. In Ireland, it might even be said that the clans have something of an alliance, though neither would be likely to call it friendship if asked. In England, relations are less “passionate,” but the groups at least accept each other as part of the landscape. In other portions of Europe, Gangrel are disdained, if not openly spurned, by the Toreador. Some unfortunate enough to be captured are treated quite literally as animals by Toreador who think themselves droll; the unluckiest are occasion- ally “kept” at court, as if in a menagerie, although the “keeper” usually keeps such a fact a tight secret - Gangrel who slip their chains are terrifying sights to behold. In short, unless a Gangrel can demonstrate he’s not simply another bearskin-clad, muscle-bound savage, then he won’t get particularly far with any Artisan. FOLLOWERS OF SET . . .I would sooner hurl myself bodily into the holy fire of our Lord’s wrath before following a Serpent to the gates that St.

Peter himself mans. What is truly frightening is that the Serpents’ most devoted followers giwe themselwes unto cowup- tion of their own accord, and with all willingness and joy. Truly, the greatest cowuption occurs when the follower is unuware that he is so mawed.. . .

\-Dieter Geisfleich, from a speech given at the court of Avignon

In the south where decadence rules, the Setites have gained a frightful foothold among the jaded elders. They encourage the excess that has become standard in secret Elysiums, and often supply drugged vitae for these dens of iniquity. Likewise, they encourage traffic in the vice trades - slavery, drugs, prostitution. A member of the White Company, Dieter Geisfleich, claims to have found evi- dence that the Setites (and certain of their Toreador cohorts) are responsible for the disappearances of women and children traveling on pilgrimage through the southern regions to the Holy Land. Younger Toreador believe quite firmly that the Serpents are responsible for the elders’ descent, and shun them for the devils they are. LASOMBRA . ..In conclusion, Your Excellency, I believe that Lady lsowla will make a fine addition to our circle of fiends. A few months without our attendance at the courts, or responses to gambits proffered, and we enjoy the sight of that lovely lady crawling buck to us.

\-Paul0 de Castille, Lasombra, from an intercepted letter to Don Simon Isidore

. . . As for the ridiculous notion that I could be brought to my knees by the loss of you and your kind fiom my court, might I remind Your Lordship that your current quest for the Court of Love is yet unfinished, and that you may not return until it is complete - no amount of judicious prestation, dealmaking or ounight begging will grant you entrance until then. But, I beg you, do continue your blustering if you wish. Your letters bring us a great deal of amusement.

\- Isouda de Blaise, from her reply to the above letter Most Cainites believe the Ventrue and Toreador to be the ultimate sparring partners, warring with each other over matters of state and Church for greater control. After all, are there few pairs better matched than the stately Patricians and the beautiful Artisans? Propose the idea to a Ventrue, and he will agree. Propose the idea to aToreador, and she will laugh. In private, Toreador believe their true counterparts are the predatory and elegant Magisters. It is the Lasombra who are considered the pinnacle of political maneuvering, and the Toreador seek the pinnacle in all things. By this logic, one’s opponents, therefore, should be chosen from the pinnacle of achievement as well. Oh, the Ventrue still have their place (someone has to fund those works of art and maintain the courts), but their intrigues are seen, in the end, to be predict- able. Ventrue are fine for the childer to cut their political teeth

on, but the Lasombra are a challenge; enemies who will last as long as their opponents, and foes with as much style and grace as their counterparts. MALKAVIANS

Most astonishing of all was the Malkawian who was kept chained to the throne as a prophet OT diviner of some sort. He pucticed augury to work his second sight, using the entrails of living kine - the wery old, the very young, women, hale men, whatever was brought to him. During the time I spent as your guest, I became inured to a great many disturbing sights. Howewer, voivode, I think that ewen you would be mowed by the suffering that these kine endured for the sake of a Madman’s attempt to call upon prophecy.

\- Lida Mateuz, from a letter to the voiwode Vlad Ionescu Although the Malkavians are viewed as macabre, pitiable lunatics by the majority of the Toreador, the Toreador of the south have a great deal of use for them as prophets and visionar- ies. Talesofnuman-based augury, prophesy by observing spattered blood and using mortals as the “planchette” of certain forms of divination are but a few of the more scurrilous rumors of the behaviors ascribed to the Madmen - and more than a few of those tales are true. Needless to say, such poor deportment has not endeared the Malkavians to their “more civilized” brethren; not only is their scrying inefficiently cruel, it lacks style.

The Toreador who does discover a reasonably lucid Malkavian makes what use she may of the resource. The Mad- men are considered to be “sleeper” allies by most, and a sudden rush of Malkavian support to the Artisans’ side has been enough to turn the tideofpoliticsinmorethanonecourt.TheMa1kavian who can make himself understood and interpret the madness of his brothers often finds himself tolerated, but rarely beloved. From where the Toreador sit, however, this is sufficient.

In return for whatever help the Malkavians provide, Torea- dor within the Church have worked to keep inter-clan relations friendly by ensuring that certain monasteries under their aus- pices care for the insane- herding lunatics where the Malkavians can access them easily. NOSFERATU I would giwe a great deal to be rid of the Leper Ximenes. He grants me no peace, even when I am at Mass. Toduy he fawned upon me when I came fiom the church, wailing for all to hear that he was but a poor beggar craving sustenance, when in fact he wished only to embawass me before the bishop. That he has also besmirched with offal my pize coat with the Virgin broidered upon it in silwer thread has given me cause to hate him. Surely there is some task I could set him to from which he would not return.. . .

\- Vassily of Kiev, from his personal writings The average Artisan would rather die than be seen in the company ofthese ugly and disgusting creatures. The Nosferatu’s constant railings about the first being last and whatnot, mixed

For with a healthy dose of sundry other pseudo-Biblical rants, most Toreador, the fact that the Tremere strode in make for tiresome company. Even the Toreador chivalric orders find their patience continually tested by the excesses of the Nosferatu. To those seeking information, Nosferatu are invaluable, but the Lepers’ attempts to outshine the Toreador in piety does not win them friends. The Nosferatu may have excellent sources of information, but caweat emptor is the Artisans’ rule of thumb when buying such information; veri- fying the secrets the Nosferatu sell ofttimes requires going where the Nosferatu go, which few Toreador are willing to do. There’s little worse for a Toreador than getting tricked by a Nosferatu using Obfuscate on his appearance, a trick at which anumber of the Lepers are becoming skilled. ANosferatu who plays such a jape may win the approbation of his fellows, but also earns the eternal enmity of the butt of his joke.

RAVNOS In short, my lord, I demand recompense for the loss of both my purse and my dignity, thanks to this ruffian who dared accost to deal me with outside the criminal my very elements haven. of If you our society hawe not - the indeed, strength

it would seem that you tolerate them - then perhaps it were meet that the Cainites of this city find one who can.

\-Lord Giacomo del Amici, letter to the Duc d’Aquitaine Pierre Capet

If a Toreador knows a Ravnos as anything besides a thief and trash, he keeps it a tight secret or suffers a serious loss of status. The Gypsies are considered fascinating and amusing in the way that a Cathayan puzzle box might be, but most Artisans would never approach or associate with Ravnos, as they are considered “unfit company.” Those who dare the wrath and disapproval of their elders find exciting times with the Ravnos, and return as consummate performers, but forever after those venturesome Toreador will be seen as untrustwor- thy, and will find themselves the first to be suspected of any crime. Toreador who have been Ravnos marks likewise do their best to keep the knowledge a secret, although there’s always going to be some overly fastidious lord who demands that the prince “do something” about the ruffians who stole his beggar purse. TREMERE

It is not so much that we approve of their deeds, but that we have certain ideas about what needs our attendance and what does not. The Tremere situation is one of those things that does not need attention at this time, that is all. This does not mean that I was not annoyed by the antics of that idiot wizard and his pet witch when they invaded court improperly dressed and displaying an appalling lack of manners. I think that the humiliation they suffered will be enough to silence them for at least the next three month, while I choose an appropriate long- term punishment for them.

\- Nicolette Foudet, speaking to clanmate Isabeau Monstrelet

demanding their place among the clans is more of an outrage than Saulot’s death. A few elders have grown uneasy about the ease with which Tremere accomplished Saulot’s subsumption, and fear that the Tremere will soon be searching for other prizes. The Toreador’s slowness to spring into the fray to protect the Salubri has a few Tremere believing they might have allies among the Artisans, but the Usurpers’ recent, clumsy attempts at bribery have resulted in their being laughed out of many a court. TZIMISCE My dear, I could not begin to tell you of the wonders that I have seen here. Shall 1 speak of the fires and dances of Kupala‘s Night\! Shall I speak of my host himself, with a face that the Powers and Thrones would mistake for one of their own? Shall I speak of the labyrinth below the keep, wherein I have seen things that not even nighmres can craft? Shall I speak of my lessons and the marwelous gifts my host has awakened in me? Or shall 1 tell you that when I return, your reign as court beauty will be ended when 1 hawe finished with you?

\- Isabella de Aragon, from a letter to an unknown rival Some Toreador strike up strange friendships with the Tzimisce after becoming enchanted with a beautiful fleshcrafted face. Occasionally, the Tzimisce have worked Vicissitude on particularly persuasive Toreadors, granting them the visages of angels (although what the price is for such few like to speak of). As for those Toreador who like to explore the fine lines between pain and pleasure, they prefer to have Tzimisce as their companions. In the south, Tzimisce find themselves much in demand among the dissolute who enjoy pain, whether as spectacle or experience. Younger and less experimental Toreador usually give the Fiends a wide berth, treating them as mad tyrants to be humored but avoided whenever possible. VENTRUE

, . .And therefore, my most gracious lord, it is with great sadness that I must decline your invitation to your Christmas court. Lady Franzjska, of your clan I believe, sent me a fine offer to attend her at her Christmas court and to owersee certain of the festivities. The choice was quite clear, particularly after you had announced that Edward Blackwater would be selecting the entertainments. Edward, while no doubt a Ventrue of sterling character, lamentably lacks something of your sense of taste. I feared that you would be embarrassed by his efforts, especially before your fiends, and as such sought to spare you that embarrassment. I submit to you once again my humblest apologies that I will miss your celebration.

\- Corbett Duncan, from a letter to Prince Gerholm Most Toreador, given their choice on a Sabbath evening, would much rather be ruled by Ventrue princes. Ventrue usually give the Toreador enough space to let them do as they will, but also keep them close to the seat

of power as social advisors and “bringers of beauty” to the courts. Patricians frequently defer to the Artisans with regard to matters of aesthetics, allowing the Toreador to make most of the decisions (so long as the buyer’s ultimate wishes are kept in mind). The two clans do find much to keep them interested in one another, but in the end, Torea- dor find the Ventrue too predictable. However, escalating tensions from one too many clashes between Church and state are resulting in frayed relations between the clans; the Ger- man states in particular are fomenting regrettable disagreements. BAALI

With regard to your last letter, my dear Chretien, your time among the Chanticleerans has quite ruined you. They crow at the slightest provocation, a warning which is usually in vain. You see demons in every corner, and startle like an old woman encountering a mouse in her grain banel. For the last time, your sources are incorrect. There are no Baali in Rome.

\- Lucius Gaius Valerius, from a letter to Chretien de Campienne

It is sad to say, but the worst excesses of the Toreador are Baali-inspired. That’s inspired, not performed. In the fine old tradition of demonic temptation, the Baali prefer to give their victims enough rope with which to hang themselves, and then let those under their sway put the final flourishes on some of the knots. Most Toreador simply shudder at the thought of these would-be demonaics, and hope they never meet up with Baali. Those Artisans who wish to study the arts of pain or experiment with some less “respectable” pastimes do seek out Baali, but even they do so with reservation. Only the truly mad or fallen call the Infernalists friends or allies, but the mad and fallen have, alas, never been in short supply. The Chanticleerans make it their personal mission to seek out and destroy Baali; unfortunately the knowledge of certain clanmates’ fallings has pinioned them into inaction, and a number have begun to look the other way in an effort to avoid further conflict. THE BLOODLINES I have a most remarkable thing to relate, my fiend. You 1 have heard by now that I have spent time among the

Gravediggers with regard to certain studies of the menhirs on my northern estates. Upon my /at visit to my fiend Sahzaar’s scripturium, I encountered a woman, Cainite certainly, but by my blood I could not determine whence her lineage was derived. She was armed like a man, bore considerable skill at arms, and ) demonstrated gifts like I had never seen in another of the blood. host These called tricks this she wonderful called the creature blessing of a Lamia.. the Dark . . Mother. My

\- Richard Caxton, from a letter to Thane de Charnay

Assuming that the Toreador in question has heard of the reclusive bloodlines, he or she usually holds the opinion, “Well, I’ve never met them, but they have a certain sort of reputation, and I generally don’t associate with such people.” The average Toreador, unless she has a well-traveled companion or has made journeys strange for one of her clan, often has not met a member of one of the bloodlines, and is not likely to seek one out. SALUBRI

And so, it is to end like this between us -for my refusal to perpetuate an aging Cainite’s insulted vanity, you would disown me from clan and country. I have learned much in my time among these people - much of honesty, of skill at arms, of devotion both to holy cause and my liege. That you would give approval to the deeds of a cabal of half- mortal wizards with delusions of grandeur shames you far more than you seek to shame me. If you prize Aucassin’s favor and his withered touch more than your friendships or salvation, then perhaps it is better that we part company. I would not seek to spend another night in the company ofa lapdog. - Rafael (formerly Amadeo di Tuscano), from a letter to his sire

One would think that the Toreador would have at least some interest in assisting their Salubri kin, as the Code of Honor certainly calls for such action to be taken. For some reason, though, there has been only an ominous silence from the Artisans and their knights. Current gossip passed from “untrustworthy” sources (largely Nosferatu and Ravnos) has suggested that the knights of Toreador close their ears to the cries of their brethren due to a quarrel between Samiel and a Toreador known only as Aucassin. Aucassin had sought out Samiel to join his band of warriors, but Samiel, unimpressed with the young Cainite’s devotion or skill at arms, refused him. Insulted, Aucassin swore revenge against Samiel’s kin, and the gossips murmur that an ancient Aucassin takes his revenge by demanding that every one of the Toreador knights have nothing to do with the Salubri. LUPINES Gangrel Werewolves - after are all, considered the Gangrel beasts are at even least lower Cainites. than

Artisans rarely encounter Lupines, as the Cainites prefer the safety of town and castle, while the Lupines keep to the wilds. On the other hand, some of the talk filtering out from the south of Europe speaks of Lupines being Dominated into performing like dogs or used in perverse hunting games. The Toreador publicly dismiss these tales for now, but call for the local silversmith when the story’s audience has retired for the night.

WBELLUS SANGUINIS 2

WRAITHS

While most Toreador don’t believe in ghosts, they do fear and hate them. It is one thing to get delicious chills from hearing a story about a harp inhabited by the spirit of a murdered girl, quite another to actually encounter that harp and hear its strings whisper your name. Toreador who have attracted ghosts are often shunned by their brethren as bad luck, and it rarely takes long for the news of such an affliction to spread. A haunting in a Toreador castle brings about some very interesting (and often amusing) efforts to keep guests and outsiders from learning the truth. Torea- dor fear wraiths as asign of things to come in the afterworld, and despise wraiths for “bringing the subject up.” MAGES

Very few Toreador understand magic beyond simple parlor tricks or illusions. After all, magic is what those untrustworthy Tremere do, isn’t it? The differences among hedge magic, parlor tricks and True Magick are lost on the Artisans; as far as they’re concerned magic is magic, and a magic-worker is a magic-worker. Toreador are careful not to antagonize mages, but won’t go out of their way for them, or even seek them out except in the most dire of straits. FAE In Ireland, England and the other places where the fae may still be found, curious friendships spring up between the Toreador and faeries. Many a Toreador falls into madness or hopeless longing after glimpsing a sidhe’s face; one such Cainite burned out his eyes after gazing on a sidhe woman, saying that he would never again see such beauty. Fae are often drawn to the creative efforts of the Cainites and their mortal proteges, while the Cainites see the fae as inspiration tantamount to a visit from an angel (or demon).

In Ireland, Cainites have discovered a convenient legend with which to cover their tracks - that of the leanhaun sidhe. Known as the muse of poets, this beautiful (and legendary) fae woman is also a blood-drinker, slowly killing her pet artists even as they create rapturous works as a result of her attentions. A few Toreador have used the legend of the leanhaun sidhe as a way of explaining away their trail of victims, but at great risk to themselves; the sidhe speak of a noble house that goes by the same name, and which has taken grave insult at the Cainites’ actions. More recently, a young Toreador monk of the Celtic Church tied himself to a cross to greet the sun after finishing a masterfully illuminated Gospel of St. Matthew. While no definite connection has been made between his death and this legend, his companions speaks fearfully of the flame-haired beauty who was seen in his company during those final nights. ...

DIVERSITY IN THE RANKS

Artistry is in the mind of the artist, and the best art is found in enjoying one’s existence - or so say the Artisans. Representational work has its place, of course, but who is to say whether the Ascetic or the Caligulan has the truer bead drawn on “true” art. THRILL-SEEKER

Many Toreador become sensation-seekers, not necessar- ily looking for “excitement” per se, but just some way to break out of the rut their eternal existences provide. Such Cainites are looked on with scorn by their brethren, particularly since many engage in “improper” behavior: dabbling with sorcery and hedge magic, traveling with bards and minstrels in dis- guise, taking vows with religious orders, consorting with heretics, enlisting with mercenary companies or running with the other supernaturals. If a Thrill-seeker keeps to himself, that’s one thing. If he’s out of control and a disgrace to the clan, that’s another matter entirely. Peer pressure, often one of the surest ways to keep wayward members in line, means very little to this crowd, and elders are likely to take extreme measures to ensure that potential embarrassments are dealt with effi- ciently. ASCETIC

These Toreador are interested in the beauty found in the serenity of their minds’ surroundings. Often they are disen- chanted with the dissolution found in the Church or among their own kind. Rather than make a futile attempt at reforma- tion, such disappointed idealists retreat from the world to live in a cave, cell or some other isolated locale. Such a course of action is not taken lightly, if for no other reason than the logistics offeeding. Assorted rumors claim that Ascetic Cainites train their bodies to accept only animal blood, or even to go without feeding for several days at a time. Many Toreador (and not a few other Cainites) believe that the sort of rigorous training that the Ascetics supposedly inflict on themselves is one of the first steps on the path to Golconda; Salubri often recommend it for those who live in a highly secular society (such as the Toreador). Ascetics do not often retreat entirely from the call of their blood, though; a number practice mysti- cism, taking instruction from Sufis and hermits and producing remarkable writings and poetry on the relations of God and Man. This theological diversion is perhaps the most important reason the majority ofToreador Asceticsdonot go insane from boredom in isolation.

PATRON

Patrons enjoy creating people, shaping them and helping them to become their very best - so that in doing so, they become a credit to their patrons. For these self-appointed patricians, their art is the shaping of a new personality from old clay. They take their charges completely under their wings, see to their education, outfit them, and otherwise transform them. How a Patron spots her diamond in the rough varies, but she will put forthherbest efforts toensureafinefinishedproduct, and the subject had better put forth the same. Training methods also vary, and some call upon startling cruelty to make certain the charge learns her lessons. Patrons often call bills due at some later point in time, expecting recompense from their former “projects” for services rendered. Wise beneficiaries comply; fools resist and suffer the slings and arrows of an outraged Cainite’s wrath. A Patron who feels she has been taken for granted or wronged is a frightening sight, for she will not stop until she has taken back her pound of flesh, preferably from her ungrateful protege’s heart. HUMANIST

Humanists believe in mortals - specifically, in their ability to commit great good or great evil, and in their creativity and their worth. These Cainites do not see humans as perfect (far from it), but they do believe that mortals have gifts to give and Cainites are wrong simply to shove them aside. Humanists struggle to keep their connections to their own humanity alive, which grants them some empathy with mortal struggles and fears. Their art is frequently some of the most beautiful of all that the Toreador create, for it touches the hearts of its viewers and reminds them, however fleet- ingly, of what they have lost. The mortals Humanists choose to interact with often come away less “damaged” than they might in dealings with some other Cainites. Humanists fre- quently have their fingers well-placed on the pulse of the mortal community, and are some of the best-informed Cainites with regards to incipient changes among the living.

EPICUREAN

The image of the Epicurean is what most readily comes to mind when one imagines a “typical” Toreador: the fops, the temperamental artisans, the snobbish padrones - they are all Epicurean to one extent or another. Some are actively snob- bish, others take advantage of luxury after living so long without it, and the rest simply believe this sort of demeanor to be their due as Toreador. It is rare to find an Epicurean looking sloppy or untidy, acting without manners (that is, courtly manners - politeness is another thing), or drinking from slovenly vessels. Many Toreador begin as Epicureans and find other, less stereotypical niches as time passes.

ARTIST’S INTENT (LEVEL 3 AUSPEX\>

By this gift, a Toreador may penetrate the “soul” of the inanimate artwork she is examining. Through such examination, she may better interpret the work, perhaps even gleaning the artist’s state of mind, the relationbetween artist and work, and the stages of the creative process itself. Much of this reveals itselfthrough aseries of progressively paler images as she looks further back into the work‘s past. Some Toreador use this to critique a piece, while others utilize the ability to monitor their patronages for unspoken rebellion or sadness, or get the “real” story behind the letter propsing an alliance. So far, this Discipline has proven unusable on “living” work, such as a play in performance, songs or pieces of music being played, or a story being told. Speculation on the reasons for this suggests that such work depends on and conveys, however unconsciously, the performer’s intent, whereas an inanimate piece is unlikely to be “tainted” by such.

System: The player rolls Perception + Auspex (difficulty 7) for each work she wishes to examine. The number of successes deter- mines how much she perceives of the work. The difficulty rises if she attempts to “read a piece with multiple artists or a long creation span. Items such as cathedrals, castles and the like will leave the Toreador a gibbering vegetable from informational overload.

1 success - General feelings, no historical context (“The artist was melancholy while creating this.”)

2 successes - More specific, a vague sense of history (“He was melancholy when she started this, but I believe he grew happier as the work progressed. Perhaps he grew to like his subject, or something changed in his life.”)

3 successes - Details emerge, along with a fuzzy historical outline (“He didn’t like the subject at first, and he hated the work because of it, but after a while, he and the subject got along better, and the work went better.”)

4 successes - You have a definite idea about the artist’s emotional state, and a fairly reasonable idea of the timeline of the work’s creation.

5 successes - You can see the work in stages, and know how the artist was feeling every step of the way.

MELUSINE’S SONG (LEVEL 6 PRESENCE)

Named for the legendary (and supposedly fae) progenitor of the Anjou and Lusignan houses, this power grants a Torea- dor the ability to sway another though song. If the Artisan can phrase her requests in song form, those words take on the power of nigh-irresistible commands.

System: Initiating this power costs two points of blood and apoint of Willpower, at which point the player must write down for the Storyteller both the suggestion she wishes to weave into her song and the nature of the song itself. All those in earshot must immediately roll Willpower (difficulty 8) or submit to the request without realizing they are doing so. The effect lasts for as long as the Toreador continues to sing or until the target leaves the singer’s presence. Commands that re- quire the victim to leave the Toreador’s presence can be resisted with an additional Willpower roll (difficulty 8) once the sound of that enchanting voice fades.

Those within earshot, but not in the Toreador’s immedi- ate presence, may notice something odd (Wits + Subterfuge, difficulty 8) about the ensorcelled singing, but little more than an exceptionally good performance. Toreador within earshot of this sort of performance are immediately entranced.

As an additional bonus, knowledge of this power reduces the difficulty by 1 of all rolls related to singing. DIPLOMAT’S LEVEL 3 AUSPEX)

BOON (LEVEL 5 PRESENCE, A diplomat’s most difficult task is understanding what people need to hear in order to make them agreeable to a suggestion. With this power, a Toreador may learn what it is that a target wants to hear. The power does not necessarily reveal all of the views of the Cainite’s target, but it does grant invaluable information which can then be put to good use in negotiation, avoidance of treachery and so on.

Despite its innocuous-sounding name, Diplomat’s Boon is not always used for peaceful matters. Enemies may be allied, marriages arranged and wars started with proper application of this knack.

System: The player spends a blood point and has her character concentrate for one turn on her subject. She then knows what to say to elicit a particular response. If the character is attempting to further an idea that the target believes fundamentally wrong (such as convincing a pacifist monk to propose war, or a happy person to consider suicide), the target is permitted a Willpower roll (difficulty 8). The effects last for one turn. DOUBLETONGUE LEVEL 3 Ausrr\~x)

(LEVEL 6 PRESENCE, The Toreador may cloak her words in such a way that her target hears one thing - the intended message - and those around her hear another thing entirely. The listener does not hear the intended message on a subconscious level - the words sound as clear as if the Toreador had spoken them

basis describe it as imagining that the true message is buried in words around it, like so: “Good day. I am How are a Toreador and you? Would you hear my you like true words to take a thus walk?” The audience hears: “Good day. How are you? Would you like to take a walk?,” while the target hears: ‘‘I am a Toreador, and you hear my true words thus.”

This power has any number of practical uses. A popular one is to “discipline” a servant or a knight (while in fact praising him for a job well done). Another is duringdiplomatic relations, when the Toreador may sing melting phrases about a king’s goodness, when in fact he’s letting his real target know that he finds said king to be a laughable poltroon. In the Courts of Love, Double-Tongue has proved invaluable to many a lady who wishes to inform her knight that she does in fact accept his attentions, but must publicly refuse him. Such an ability also makes for valuable messengers; the most sensitive of plans may be hidden within the earthiest of nonsense rhymes.

System: This lasts for one turn per Willpower spent. To discover out how well the message was conveyed, the player must roll Manipulation + Empathy (difficulty of 10 minus MERITS listener’s Perception). AND FLAWS FETCH (2 PT. MERIT)

You have access to a mortal who looks just like you. Perhaps she’s your twin sister, a long-lost relative, someone who has been Vicissituded or simply very good at disguise. Unless she is ghouled, however, she will age and eventually no longer be your double. Your fetch may move about during the day, conducting your business and keeping up your semblance of a mortal life -but also commits actions for which you will be held responsible. Remember, your fetch should be kept carefully informed regarding your relationships and business dealings. PATRON (2-4 PT+ MERIT)

You have attracted the attention of another Toreador, who has made it her job to see that you succeed. Perhaps you gained her attention because of your lineage, perhaps because of your artwork, or something you did or said. Whatever the reason, you have someone who will champion your work and speak up for you in the courts. She may even arrange for shelter or training. Be careful not abuse your Patron - no one likes being taken for granted. A two-point Patron is someone who is about your own level in clan station, but is perhaps older than you and has good advice to offer. A four-point Patron has resources at her disposal and occupies a station high enough to make a significant difference in your unlife. CLOSER THAN BLOOD (3-5 PT+ MERIT)

You have an affinity with another Cainite (most likely a Toreador, but possibly one of another clan) not brought about Blood Oath or other artificed means. You would lay down your BOOK ONE: TOREADOR

W

unlives for each other, and you feel empty without the other nearby. Such bonds can be same sex or opposite sex, and there is no way to predict who your “twin” will be. A 3-point Merit indicates that you occasionally can sense the other’s strong emotions (fear, joy, pain) if your “twin” is in the vicinity. A 5- point Merit means that you often sense the other’s emotions, even at a distance, and can feel the other’s physical pain or peril. TOUCHED BY GOD (3 PT, MERIT)

Your art is considered truly inspired and inspiring. There is an essence of life and beauty about your work that moves others. Perhaps you were always gifted, or the Embrace might have opened you to the Almighty in ways you hadn’t ex- pected. Yoursingingvoice causesstones to melt, your paintings look as if their subjects might step off the canvas at any moment, or your storytelling holds people utterly spellbound. The difficulty on all Expression rolls is reduced by two. If the art being produced relates to God, the Church or similar high ideals, the difficulty is reduced by three instead. Such perfec- tion, however, can engender jealousy in mortal or Cainite rivals. Some suspicious clergy may believe that you sold your soul to achieve your talent, or that you are guilty of hubris by reaching too high with your endeavors. VAMPIRIC CONSORT (5 PT, MERIT)

You are in a relationship much like marriage with another vampire. This pairing bestows the benefits of the Merit True Love on both of you. Taking this Merit in addition to Closer Than Blood allows you a remarkable degree of closeness - you may even be able share Disciplines on occasion. Your consort is most likely your equal in power and status, but together you present a formidable front. You would die and kill for each other, and God help the fool who attempts to come between you or harm your lover. RIVALRY (8-3 PT, FLAW)

You have an ongoing rivalry with someone (perhaps another Toreador, another Cainite, or even a mortal). You may or may not remember how the competition started, but now you and your rival are inseparable. This rival takes advantage of every opportunity to slander you and advance himself at your expense. There may be ways to cool or end this quarrel, but doing so will take a long time. A I-point rival is at your own power level, and is often annoying but not too dangerous. A 2-point rival occasionally takes harmful action against you, or his words have some measure of influence. A 3- point rival has no qualms about occasionally attempting to

V SPAR AGED (2 PT, FLAW)

You married someone beneath your station, and thus have lost social standing yourself. An example would be a countess who has married a knight or a duke who married a baron’s daughter. Among your own social class, you are treated with disrespect or even actively snubbed, while your spouse is ignored or treated rudely. Your spouse’s peers don’t know how to behave with you, resulting in further awkward relations or standoffishness. A+2 difficulty is added to your Social rolls when dealing with your peers. Your marriage may be a happy one, but you have paid a terrible price for it. USED AND ABUSED (2 PT, FLAW)

For some reason, you have incurred the wrath of those higher in station in your clan. These Cainites have the power to make your life miserable - injuring your reputation, spreading nasty gossip, slandering your lovers - and all for reasons that you can’t understand. However, just because you’re being abused doesn’t mean you necessarily have to endure it meekly. You may be able to find assistance from others who disbelieve the slander- but you may have to prove yourself several times over first. VULGAR (2 PT\* FLAW)

You are rude, crude and socially unacceptable. You seem constitutionally incapable of saying or doing the right things, in spite of all attempts to teach you. Your sire is criticized and ridiculed for choosing you, and you are frequently left off guest lists. You may eventually work off this Flaw, but the Storyteller should make it particularly difficult. At Storyteller option, you may be at +2 difficulty on all Social rolls. DEMESURE (3 PT, FLAW)

Dimesuri refers to sinful pride that results in extraor- dinary (and sometimes horrendous) costs to the possessor and those around him. The most famous example is that of Childe Roland, who refused to allow his men to retreat as the Moors slaughtered them, his pride goading him to remain so that he would not to appear a coward. A player who takes this Flaw should (with the Storyteller) select one (maybe more) things that his character takes great pride in - his clothes, his horsemanship, his fighting, etc. When that pride is insulted or threatened, the player must make a Willpower roll (difficulty 9). If he fails, he pursues the salvation of his “honor” to the exclusion of all other business. This obsession can result in lost allies, plans gone completely awry, loss of loved ones or even Final Death. Each time the character achieves goals relating to his obsession, he may make a Willpower roll (difficulty 7) to see if he can let the obsession rest for the remainder of the night.

Quote: A most interesting suggestion, lord, but with respect, I believe you may have werhked something. If I might-?

History: The second daughter of minor nobility, you were frequently overlooked and ignored in favor of your two brothers and elder sister. While they got the attention, education and baubles, you were shunted aside, scolded and ignored. You wouldn'tget anything ofthe estate with your brothersinheriting, you'd have to wait for your sister to marry before you could (and with that horseface ofhers, it would be a while), and about all you had to look forward to was getting old and caring for your auerulous Darents. At the tender age of 1 1. vou decided that you were going to take your life in your hands and do things your way. Since you were often ignored, you could spy on your brothers at their lessons and thus learned to read and write. You learned to listen at doors, talk without really saying anything, lie without blush- ing, tempt without compromising yourself. You learned politics by listen- ing in on your father and brothers, and questioning anyone who came to the keep. This was all well and good, but you wanted a challenge. Someone must have been listening to your thoughts, because your father and brothers died, one after the other, of sickness or accident. While your mother and sister wailed, you got busy securing things for yourself and your heirs. Now the shoe was on the other foot, and your family suddenly found cause to regret ig- noring you all this while.

You married a man of means, a newly minted baron, and it was only two monthsbefore you found out that he was a vampire. Im- pressed with your political acumen and skill at subterfuge, he brought you into the clan's presence. When all were suffi- ciently dazzled, he Embraced you and presented you to the prince of the city. Since then, you have \\ \\

maneuvered into the enviable position ofbeing a prince's advisor without all the fanfare that goes along with being noticed. Your position has also given you an excellent vantage with regard to the rest of the Cainites, and many fear you, for your words can ensure a young vampire's success or failure.

Concept: A weak woman? Hardly. Some may be enchanted with your looks, but underneath the silk and roses lies cold steel. You know what must done and how to get it done, and you have little patience for those with weak stomachs for the demands of power. Few, ifany, understand your true role incourt. That's their mistake, though, especially when you can ensure that the fop who insulted you at midnight can be staked out for the dawn.

Roleplaying Hints: You change your moods as others might change gowns - all to suit the occasion. Some might call you artificial, but you prefer to thinkof yourself as adaptable. Whether you need to banter wittily with a knight at the court, or rebuke that same knight later that night for failing at the task you set him, you can reinvent yourself in a heartbeat. So long as you stay one step ahead of those you must charm or misdirect - and you have thus far - all will be well.

Equipment Fashionable court clothing, rosary, book of Marie de France's romans r- Nnrilu\~: AUTOCRAT GENERATION: tlth

Quote: A tak to cheer you, sweet lady? Shall sing you of the Lady Chrystobel and her g o d Sir Eglamour.. .? History: As a peasant boy growing up in Normandy, you heard many of the old stories of heroes and witchcraft. You were suffused with the fire of imagination, and many was the day you'd do your chores imagining yourself as Childe Roland or Sir Launcelot. You started recounting the stories you'd heard for your younger siblings, and found that you had a real gift for performing. When you told your tales, you could feel your woolen clothes turning to heavy armor or see the trees of the woods become the pillars of a castle.

That was all well and good for a boy, your father said, but he expected you to take up the smithing trade - he'd already promised you to a neighbor as an apprentice. You tried to be dutiful and carry on, but you'd start daydreaming while pumping the bellows and not wake up until something had happened, usually an accident. After one too many of these, the neighbor returned you to your father, and you faced a lifetime of working in the dirt unless you did something about it. Like the legendary heroes who sought their fortunes by running away, you decided to try your luck on the road.

After several hungry days, you fell in with a band of jongleurs who were impressed with your storytelling abilities and who taught you music and a few magic tricks as you traveled through the country- side. Some days you were hungry, and some days you were cold and miserable, but you never wished to back. Your gifts improved with , and soon you began to reputation as a tale-teller

The troupe stopped at a tle one night torequest shel- er in return for entertainment. The crowd was full of strange pale people, but you plucked up your nerve and went to work. You spun your magic like never before, and the silent crowd warmed to you and your words. When you were done, they stared at you blankly for several moments, and you thought your career was com- pletely finished. Then, they seemed to shake themselves awake, threw money and ap- plauded until the hall rang. You had gone to bed down for the night when a servant came to sav

a little about such instances, so you took your instrument, wore the tunic with the open neckline and went to see the lady in her chambers.

You had heard about such things, yes, and had even told tales about what she was, but nothing could prepare you for the moment when she sank her teeth into your throat.

Concept Your song and story enchanted your sire until she felt that she simply must have you. It was difficult to get accustomed to your unlife at first -you missed the days of sunshine and birdsong- but you've adjusted. You and yoursire got alongwellenoughuntil the wanderlust took you, and she let you go, but only with a promise to return each year. Now, like the questing knights you sing of, you wander the lands performing for mortal and Caiiite alike. Many Toreadorwillpayhighpricesingoldorboonsforgdentertainment, and you'vebeenable topitch yourpricesalittle higher each year.The songs what you you've thd written hex lately self-styled have knights been more ought about to be Camites, with Churchly mixing

values, and a few of the court ladies are starting to demand that their lovers act accordingly. So many people forget about the troubadour in the comer when wine loosens their tongues, and you've found some of the best secrets are dropped with you just in earshot.

Roleplaying Hints: You love telling a story as vividly as possible. You want your audiences to see what you see, and you'll do almost anything to help their imaginations. You're becoming more familiar with the courtly customs, although you sometimes try too hard to show that you are cultured and come across as pompous.

Equipment: Instrument, traveling clothes, spare perfor- mance clothes, knife

T n LENTS A c r i n e . a 8 0 0 0 AlertncrS-.\*oooo Athletics-• o o o o Brawl-. 00 00 D Emparhv-e Inrmdarm-oooooo

O d g c \~ \* eo O 000 O o o o Larceny-0 Leadership-o Subterfuge-. 0 o 0 o 0 0 o o 0 o o 0 o o

Animal Kcn-eooooo SKILU Archeniaooooo Q s Eriquertepa HerbalamPo h r \~ 0 0 o 0 o o o 0 o o 0 o o 0 o o Melee. M u R i Srralrhpa s i c r d e r e o o o 0 0000 0 o o o o o o o

o PRESENCE..oooo -ADVRNTAGES- CELERITY AUSPEX DISCIPLINES .ooooo .ooooo S"rvl"alJOOOO0 ALLIES-oooo BncK(iH(wNns MFLVENCEoooo MEN TO&\* .. 00 000000 0000 000000 D O 0 0 0

VIRTUES

GrvrlcncdQmmRtJ 0

Self-Co"rrol/h,HwJ 0 0

C o " r \* g e r . . . O

tical THE HERMIT

experiences. You hope to turn your old talents of Quote: By Thy grace, I see, and by Thy hand 1 am blinded.

History: You were Embraced at the beginning of the century for your skill at songmaking, and at first you enjoyed your unlife. As time wore on, though, you grew first to dislike, then despise your existence. You were plagued with dreams of the horrors that awaited you upon your Final Death, and your music was dissonance in your ears. Your peers tried any number of means to shake you back to yourself, from religion to debauchery, and nothing seemed to work. By the final quarter of the century, you had decided on suicide, disgusted as you were with your dissolute clanmates and Church. Then, you heard about a Cainite, a Toreador who lived by himself as a hermit and who spent his time in contemplation. The idea was so strange that you had to see for yourself if it was true.

The hermit welcomed you graciously to his cave and told you his story. Like you, he had once been a toasted and feted darling of the clan, and like you, he had grown weary of a life grown stagnant. He had come here on t i e advice of a Salubri, who had shared his knowledge of mysticism and faith with a pupil hungry for a change. Upon re- leasing his student, the Salubri had asked only that he share his knowledge with oth- ers likewise hungry. By the time the Cainite’s talk was done, you knew that you would be his

Byzantium where you spent time in contemplation near a monastery. You have taught two other new students to the

gan to write

songmaking into something far more worthy, and are con- sidering venturing back into the world you abandoned for the sake of spreading your music.

Concept: You turned to mysticism looking for an anchor for your soul, and some might say you found a millstone instead. It’s a difficult existence, and the solitude is sometimes draining to your spirit, no matter how hard you try to steel yourself against loneliness. The nearby monastery provides necessary company, and returning to your old craft has proven an unexpected solace. The Lord works in mysterious ways, and none more so than the means by which you arrived in this “life.”

Roleplaying Hints: You keep silent usually, not be- cause of any vows, but by your own choice. You fear that by speaking, you might miss the whisper of the Lord’s voice, or perhaps you feel that words are too slow and clumsy to convey the thoughts you have. When you do speak, your voice is slightly rusty and low from disuse, and your speech slow and thoughtful.

Equipment: Parchment and quills, rough robes, rope belt, sandals 1.- NHTLIH\~.: PENITENT GENERATION: 9th

CHRONll‘Ll2 PLnYERl DEMEIINOR: CUIN: TOREADOR LONER HIIMN: CONC\~THE HERMlT nli 1

TALENTS SKIUS KNOWLEIX\~ES Actmn-mooooo A n i m a l K c n \~ o o o o o Asadcrnics-mmmmoo Alertness-mmoooo Athlerrs-oooooo Crafts-oooooo Alchev-oooooo Brawl-o LMr-o 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 o 0 o Etquetu-m Herbalism-\# Empathy-• Intimidam-o Larcenv-0 Leadership-OOOOOO S u b r c r f u i CELERITY AVSPEX D\~CIPLINES PRESENCFm o 0 o 0 o 0 o 0 o o o o o o \~ \~ m o o o o mmoooo mooooo 0 0 0 0 0 000000 oooooo E:;: 000000 o M Music-\# Ride\_\_\# Srealrh-oooooo Survival-mmoooo CENERATlONmmoo - H 0 DOOOO ........ ADVANTAGES- e E BACKGRWNOS 0 l R MEAVEN e D 0 c o o 0 o 0 o 0 o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 0 00 0 0

0 0 HeanhW\~dommmoooo lnvcrngltm-mmoooo hw-0 Lmnprtics-• o o o o o o o o o M Occult-• Polau-• e d i c i n e o o o o o o o o o o o o o o Science-oooooo S c n u s h a l \~ o o o o o o

VIRTUES CoM‘encclGommnJmmmo S e l f - G n r r o V \~ m. \~ 0

C h w e d m o o o

Bmlaed Hun lniumd .I 0

frequently THE FALLEN

Quote: I have such sights to show you.. . . History: One of 14 children born to a Peasant family, YOU

sound wistful and dreamy, and in a way you are. You are attached to your humanity and the mortal world by only the most tenuous of threads. Equipment Old-fashioned clothing, knife, whip, chains, were given as an oblate at age SK to a convent as payment for something you don’t remember. As you grew older, the arrange- ment proved more and more unsuitable -your temperament was too wild for the abbey, and you longed for the world outside of stone walls and six-times-daily prayers. You were beaten in an attempt to mold your spirit to something more “maidenly,” but the beatings only inflamed you all more to escape.

When you were 15, a priest arrived one evening for a stay. You were ordered to serve him in his chambers, and he took a liking to you. He told you talesof theoutside worlduntil youcould think of nothing else. Perhaps finding you an instrument to be played, he began to recount stories of darker things that no true pnest should know about - witches, demons, black rites ghosts and vampires. When the sisters heard wha you were being told (the spying harridans\!), they appealed to the local bishop to be rid of this man. The bishop bowed to their wishes, and your priest left in the middle of the night, but he didn’t go alone. You ran away and caught up with him on the road, begging him to take you along. After a moment’s consideration, he laughed and agreed.

scrolls of Roman pornography, bloodstained chemise

You traveled with him to Rome, journeying under the cover of night for safety reasons (or so he said), and every night seemed like adventure. When you reached the Holy City, he introduced you to a few of his fellow priests, who stared at you with hungry eyes until you felt uncomfortable. As his compatriots led you below the streets, you became frightened. When youwere brought to the blood baths, you screamed. Suddenly adventures weren’t fun anymore, and you begged to go home, but it was too late. Your priest Embraced you, and that night, you had your first swim in the baths. As time passed, he introduced you to every form of debauch- ery imaginable, At first you were frightened, but once you made your first kill, once you saw how flimsy mortal life was compared to Cainite life, once you had that night in the crypt with that very willing Cappadocian, your moralsfell away like a snake’s first skin. You have never regretted your transformation, except to wish you could share with the good sisters some of the visions you’ve seen. Concept: You wanted an anchor for your soul; now you search for it in those you torture and the creations you make from them. Sometimes, you believe you feel the touch of the divine on you when you are in the throes of creation, and you go to great lengths to achieve that feeling. You believe you are sharing your experiences with others, and often wish that you could truly help them to see the greater purpose in what you do. 1 1 Roleplaying: Only when the madness flickers in your eyes doesanyonesuspect anythingwrong, andby thenit’s toolate.You truly don’t understand why people act the way they do around you. You only want to show them the marvels you’ve seen. You

NHME CHRONICLE: DEMF\~NOR: Cmx h‘uTunr: TOREADOR MONSTER CHILD GENERI4TK)N: CONCEFT: HAVEN:

THE 12th FUEN

)

Of Historical Note: Centuries of Echoes

a

A Toreador once believed she had reached the pinnacle of her singing ability. and indeed had attained the purest sound that mortal or immortal could create. She was capable of holding her clanmates spellbound for hours, and her voice was she heard a woman of the fae sing a simple lament to attained were as foothills such purity that it brought tears to the eyes of its listeners. Then one night. a lover proven unfaithful and suddenly, she realized that the heights she before was a mountain so long as this beautiful creature existed, her own work music of the sphere and ruin her rival the spheres. At first, she was was like a child's piping compared to the m mad with jealousy, and sought every opportunity to in the same way that she had her peers, but without success. Every avenue to Vengeance seemed to be closed to her, and her gifts seemed faded and worthless. Finally, her jealousy faded into pain - pain that she could never create music one-tenth as pleasant or beautiful. From envy she turned to contrition, and in sackcloth and ashes she sought out her rival in desperation. At the foot of the sid, the proud Toreador begged like a child for the opportunity to learn from the fae woman. Please. Ill consent to anything. she said. Just teach me what you know\! After some consideration (and much toying with her a one-time pursuer). the lady of the sidhe invited her beneath the mound to learn,

The Toreador's departure did not go unnoticed. Songs have been written about the brave singer who entered the fae mound for the sake of her art. The songs all have the same ending, unfortunately for those who like variety - supposedly in a century (or two, or five-accounts vary) the long-lost singer will re-emerge from beneath the sto

sto, having mastered the secrets of the music of the Fair Folk. Then.

darker versions of the songs, she will wreak a terrible

Vengeance magic and Toreador art, though what she's seeking vengeance for is not necessarily clear.

acwich faen

Sensible Toreador dismiss these songs as claptrap and pseudo-Arthurian gobbledygook More prudent ones locate their havens far from reputed fairy forts, and count the years with an eye on the horizon. And there are evenings when Toreador out on rades in imitation of the Fair Folk hear music from beneath the ground, singing more beautiful than anything they have ever heard among mortals or Cainites. At such moments, the entire procession halts. transfixed, as the Toreador strain to catch each note.

And the most gifted among the Toreador thus seduced by song? They swear they hear two voices.

BOOK ONE: TOREADOR

43

K

B

ook Two: Usurpers

"They say the that the bones of St Cuthbert rest not far from here, Weerlinda said her low voice barely breaking the cold crisp si- lence of the autumn evening. She stood at the yoindow other tover room, from which she could see the stately outline of Durham Cathedral silhou etted against the moonlit sky. In her hands she held a chased-silver goblet novo empty of the warm, rich vitae that served as her only sustenance.

45

“DO you believe the tales, lady?“ Geraint de Montfort

just how wise it is for us to remain in these forsaken mountains, asked as he came to stand beside her at the window. His gaze,

surrounded as we are by hostile forces that would like nothing like hers, fastened on the nearby abbey. The young man,

better than to see our complete annihilation. I speak, of course, ghouled to her service as an apprentice and companion since

of the Tzimisce. a few nights after her arrival in this godforsaken part of

I fear we have traded our diminishing powers as mortal magi England, had helped her secure the tower she now occupied and that served as the Tremere chantry. Meerlinda stole a

for welcome an insecure us. We place work in fevdhly a dark and to unholy unlock society the thaumaturgic

that does not

glance at him from the corner of her eye. Geraint seemed composed, despite his knowledge of this night’s importance in his life. Such equanimity in the face of the elaborate ritual of

comparison knowledge of our greed. so with By vital night, the to True our we survival, Magick hear the we yet howls have our of r sacrificed the i d seem upon paltry the in

altar beasts sent in exsanguination and infusion that comprised the Tremere Embrace would stand him in good stead during his first nights as a Cainite. Meerlinda had schooled him carefully, preparing respite. search Damned, of While us the by Fiends’ we their pass wivode mml the sunlit masters. servants hours scour By in him for his transformation; soon, he would demonstrate the signs of our restingplaces. They are joined degree of his attentiveness to her lessons.

“Once, long before you were born, I might have sought diligently for such a trea- sure, as much to deprive the Church of a plaything as for whatever power those bones contained. But now,” My lies in h g e r the only haunts ktunvkdge joy these in this Mls ehat pitiful . Goratrix Yet shadopu-life

even no

that she raised her own goblet before her, in imitation of the priestly day, the tormented we receive sleep no

ofthe

Meerlinda shrugged. “It matters little,” she said.

the Church, wards protect who and send us, the and inaccessibility their I fear knights the in agaim the time of this our mountain will by t Mls us. the soon Only minim serwe passes come our to

for of

when even those precautions fail.

solace is tempered by my fear of what new inquiries his foul intelligence tunv elevation of the sacramental chal- pursues. France is not far enough away ice, “this provides me with all the for my liking. magical nourishment I require.” The rest of the letter contained She handed the goblet to Geraint solicitous inquiries about and turned away from the win- Meerlinda’s own position and re- dow. “Attend to yourduties,now,” quests for news concerning the world she told her apprentice. “I expect outside Ceoris -particularly with re- you to have resolved any unfinished gard to the activities of Goratrix. business that remains to you before you return to me. I will see you after the midnight candlemark.” Geraint bowed

Meerlinda smiled and put the scroll

U

aside, turning her attention to the second letter. This one, from Goratrix in his chantrv in and left the room. opened A small scrolls desk - letters, in the one center from of the the chantry room held at Ceoris a pair and of

the other from France. Meerlinda seated herself at the desk and picked up the first of the missives, sighing as she reread Etrius’ angled script. As usual, her fellow Cainite’s message contained his customary misgivings about his woeful state of unlife. With the first words, Meerlinda shook her head rue- fully. Etrius would never change. His horror at the price of gaining immortality had not lessened with the passing of over a century. Neither had his anger at Goratrix, the instigator of the grand experiment that had transformed the leaders of House Tremere from mortal magi to immortal children of Caine. P Her lips moved as her eyes passed over the passages of Etrius’ letter and found the “news” that he dutifully conveyed to her. Our master spends much time in the deep sleep that we have learned to call “torpor.” The nightly management of our affairs increasingly falls upon my shoulders. I begin to wonder

France, differed from Etrius’ communication in several signifi- cant aspects. Most prominent was the author’s approach to his existence. Rather than lamenting his changed status, Goratrix gloried You in and his I transformed are fortunate state.

to have escaped the confines of the barbarian countrystde for m e civilized climes. I have had my fill of listening to Errius’ cmtant moaning about “our pitiful half-life,” as he calh it. You know as weU as I that we have attained mation beyond our most potent imaginings. More than ) P \~ a ever, transfor- the breathing toys in our world had. and So its far puny removed inhabitants have we have grown become from as their chiUren’s

petty concerns beyond the that pursuit we need of knowledge, no h g e r trouble and the ourselves power attendant with aught

u p it. A long self-laudatory passage followed in which Goratrix described his latest alchemical experiments upon his “toys.” Meerlindagrimaced as she read his words with gruesome fascina- tion. Laying aside both scrolls, she sat in contemplation of the answers she would inscribe to both her fellow Tremere. Her distance from the heart of her clan had not lessened her

involvement in the ongoing dispute between Etrius and Goratrix. Both still looked to her for advice. And, as usual, she would give it -cautioning each of them to remember their common blood and the bonds that served to unite them in the face of growing enmity from outside the chantries’ gates.

Meerlinda pulled her thoughts away from the conten- tiousness of her fellow elders and fastened instead upon more immediate concerns: the bestowal of the Embrace upon her apprentice. Focusing her consciousness upon the glyph she had placed over the door to her laboratory, Meerlinda scried the room in which Geraint even now busied himself with his preparations for the ritual of the Embrace. She watched with approval as the young appren- tice arranged the pewter bowls which would be used to contain his lifeblood. Once, Geraint paused to take a deep breath, visibly forcing himself to relieve the tension mani- fest in the taut muscles of his neck. His lips moved slightly, mouthing the words of the oath of loyalty he would recite immediately after his transformation. Meerlinda nodded to herself as she watched him for a few more minutes. Satisfied with what she saw, she severed her connection to the scrying device and returned to the task of answering the pleas of both Etrius and Goratrix.

n

Geraint returned just as Meerlinda finished pressing her gold signet ring into the daub of wax on the second scroll. Tomorrow, one of her retainers - not Geraint - would see to their delivery.

“Are you ready?” she asked her apprentice. Geraint nodded. ‘‘I am, my lady,” he replied. “All has been prepared as you have ordered.”

“Does the thought of eternal life prove daunting, now that you stand ready to receive it?”

The apprentice turned his face toward the window. The town of Durham now lay occluded in the darkness that followed the setting of the moon. “Why try again for Glastonbury, why search further for the Sangreal, when the cup of immortal life rests here, within my grasp?”

Meerlinda rose. “And have you no fear that this path leads to your soul’s damnation?”

Geraint smiled faintly. “You offer me eternity in which to reflect upon that question,” he replied.

Meerlinda nodded, satisfied. “Then let us proceed to my sanctum, where you will drink from the cup of bitter- ness and strife, of joy and learning. From this night forward, you shall stand among those who have embraced the outer darkness in pursuit of the inner light. Tonight, through me, you become one of the children of Tremere.”

And Emu said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with that same red Emu this pottage.. birthright sad, Behold, .AndJacob do to me? I am AndJacob at said, the Sell point me said, to this die: Swear day and thy to what me birthright. projit this day; sM1 And

and he sware unto him: and he sold his birthright unto Jacob.

\-Genesis 2530-33 This night has seen your birth into the House of the Usurper. The other clans of the Cainite describe us thus, for we have seized their secret of life eternal and made it our own. We have cut down one of their mighty ones and put our own founder in his place. For this, they hate us. For this, they seek our destruction. Yet, we survive.

Mere survival does not constitute the whole raison d'etre of our existence, though - no, far from it. The beasts of the field survive, as do the human kine from whose vitae we draw our sustenance. Our clan serves a loftier purpose, for we seek to preserve a power that even now diminishes in the world around us. I speak of magic. For we are a clan of magi, though the nature of our magic has changed.

your wizardly power. From a potential worker of magick, you became, instead, a magical creature in essentia, no longer able to command the forces or harness the elemen- tal mysteries of the world. Instead, you have become one of those mysteries.

Our transformation lies at the heart of our present dilemma. By infusing ourselves with the vis that now entwines itself with our blood, we have set ourselves apart from nature. As mortal magi, we ate from the tree of knowledge and tried to content ourselves with the slow absorption of its h i t . As Cainites, we have swallowed the forbidden seeds of immortal- ity, and now the whole of eternity opens before us like a gaping chasm into the abyss of the unknown. Knowledge has gained a pungency far beyond our mortal expectations.

Yet, we suffer from our sacrifice of mortality. Under- stand, my childe, that our choice was an irrevocable one. The steps we have taken cannot be retraced; they have changed us forever. I fear that what we have lost can never return to us, and that the path we have chosen to walk, which you now tread alongside us, leads only deeper into the eternal night in which we must dwell. Still, we must embrace that darkness, for without it, we have nothing. THE PURPOSE OF By will and by magic have we insinuated ourselves into the bloodlines of the Children of Caine. In describing here our transformation from mortal to immortal, from those bound to the cycles of base reproduction and fleshly cares to those freed from those concerns by the eternal darkness we have embraced, I make no idle or frivolous boast. I but present to you, my childe, a true declamation of the means of our genesis as a clan of undying wizards - or former wizards, if the harsh truth be known. For in our achievement of endless existence, I fear we have traded away our birthright as surely as we have seized others' inheritance of immortality.

Think back on the exquisite agony of your Embrace. When the last of your blood flowed from your veins and the first drops of my vitae passed into burned their way into the core of your being, you a state of dying - not death -your living flesh transformed into immortal matter. You screamed as something inside you shattered.

That moment of fragmentation and the slow, agonizing feeling of dissipation that ensued signified the incorporation of magic into your very essence even as it heralded the death cry of

KNOWLEDGE

In becoming immortal, we have had to rediscover how to use our magic. The ways of mortal wizards no longer avail us. In transforming our nature, we have lost the capacity to perform those magical charms and rituals that once served to impose our will upon the natural world. Instead of harnessing the emanations of magic, we must place that yoke upon ourselves, utilizing our vitae to replace our vanished power. When you learn to see the halo which surrounds all living creatures, you will find that we exude a radiance of brilliant scintillae that marks the dispersal of magic throughout our corporal bodies.

As individuals and as a clan, we strive to master the knowledge of our newfound methods of magic, which we call Thaumaturgy. Already, we have learned to duplicate much of what we lost in becoming immortal. We can only hope that the rest will follow from diligent pursuit and experimentation. Now that we exist outside the bound- aries of mortal flesh, the constraints that inhibited us as humans no longer exercise control over our actions.

THE ONUS OF SURVIVAL Apart from recovering our knowledge of magic and comprehending our new state of existence, our clan seeks to establish for us a place in the Cainite hierarchy. The process of self-transformation began in 1022, whenGoratrix produced the elixir which initiated our change from mor- tals to immortals. Since that time, we have had to conduct further dissemination of our vampiric gift under condi- tions of utmost secrecy. Not all members of House Tremere have as yet undergone our transformation. Further, those other houses of the Order of Hermes who know or harbor suspicions of our great experiment grow increasingly an- tagonistic toward us. We dare not flaunt our achievement outside our own house, lest those who were once our fellow wizards condemn us out of ignorance.

We cannot maintain our pretense of humanity indefi- nitely, however, and to that end we have intensified our efforts to complete the transformation of all the members of House Tremere. Until that time, and perhaps even beyond, we must adhere to a rigid code of loyalty among ourselves and obedience to our elders. Only in this fashion can we protect our secrets and pursue our goals without disturbance. Unlike the other Cainite clans, we know the value of presenting ourselves as a disciplined, unified force. In like manner, we must stay ever alert to the dangers from our supernatural enemies. The other Cainites refer to us as “Usurpers,” and the term holds some truth. We have claimed for ourselves a birthright not originally intended for us, and have dared to set ourselves as equals among the Children of Caine. Clah Tzimisce despises us for stealing their vitae in order to effect our transformation and for our expansion into the lands of Eastern Europe, over which they once held sway. That our search for the secret of immortality required the sacrifice of one of their elders - in addition to a brace of our own acolytes -has caused an irreconcilable rift between our clan and theirs.

Further, once we discovered that Cainites dwelled within a highly structured society heretofore unknown to us, we realized the necessity to establish ourselves as a bloodline equal to those of the other vampires. Thus, Tremere took into himself the power and generation of the Antediluvian Saulot. We did not anticipate the scorn and hostility that would be instigated by that action.

Was Tremere’s Amaranth of Saulot a mistake in terms of our survival as Cainites? You need not answer that question immediately, my childe. In part, it serves a rhe- torical purpose. Every action we have taken since that fateful night bears questioning with regard to its unfore- seen consequences. Our enemies beset us on all sides and from all quarters. We exist because of our caution and our determination; ironically, our willingness to undertake risks also contributes to our continued survival.

ACCEPTANCE

As we move farther away from our mortal colleagues, we grow more intimately bound up inCainite society. Notice that I do not refer to it as the “society of the Damned,” as I have heard other vampires describe their state - and, indeed, as my friend and fellow Council member Etrius so often pronounces it. Heretical though it may be, I believe that God reserves His judgment for mortals, and for mortals alone. We have become something different.

As important as any of our other pursuits, the gaining of acceptance by our co-equals looms as one of our most imme- diate concerns. Once we existed as a house of magi among other houses. Now we form a clan of Cainites within a society of disparate and often quarreling clans. Though the other Cainites call us Usurpers, they cannot deny our existence. Already we have formed a few alliances with those Cainites who despise our Tzimisce enemies. No doubt any clan who approaches us believes that it acts out of self-interest; for now, we must content ourselves with allowing them to continue their delusion. Wresting a place for ourselves within the hierarchy of vampires counts as but the first step in a larger and more ambitious process. THE ATTAINMENT OF POWER

We aspire to more than mere acceptance. With the advantages granted to us by our unique thaumaturgical ability, Clan Tremere possesses the potential to gain dominance over its Cainite brothers and sisters. Despite our relative youth as a clan, we count among our number some of the most agile and resourceful minds in Cainite society. The other clans have grown set in their ways. Moreover, their own petty concerns over ancient rivalries prevent them from assembling a unified force to oppose our ascension to power among their ranks.

Our clan structure provides the necessary stability for our campaign to increase our standing and authority within the fractious shadow realm of Cainite governance. This aspira- tion, of course, must remain occluded from the minds of any who might oppose us. The obstacles that confront us seem formidable, as did the prospect of unlocking the secret to immortality; yet we succeeded in our first quest. I have no doubt that we shall likewise prove successful in attaining our rightful place of leadership within the world of the unliving.

As aclan of usurpers, ClanTremere must carve out its own realms of power and influence, taking territory and establish- ing our presence where we may. As magi, we once held claim to many villages in Eastern Europe and Transylvania. Here we constructed schools of learning that served as our chantries.

Unfortunately, our presence in those lands of wild and power- ful magic aroused the ire of the vampires of Clan Tzimisce. Raids by these undying ones and by other supernatural crea- tures resulted in the loss of many of our strongholds. Now, only a few remain.

As magic diminished throughout much of the world, House Tremere sought an ingress into Eastern Europe. There we found places where magic still flourished, albeit in strange and often incomprehensible forms. Still, it enabled us to continue to harvest the vis we found so necessary for the continuation of our abilities.

Now that we have freed ourselves from the dependency on such external sources of magic, needing only the blood of common mortals to resuscitate our own internal magic, Clan Tremere possesses the capability of expanding its borders and establishing enclaves throughout the known world.

Tremere himself has ordered our dispersal in order to assert our presence in as many countries as possible. In this way, we force the other clans to recognize our existence and give ourselves the ability to present our case to some of the vampires more likely to ally with us against a common enemy. In addition, by locating our elders in various parts of the world, we can decrease the likelihood that any single attack by our enemies can deprive us of our most potent clan members. EASTERN EUROPE: AND TRANSYLVANIA

Despite attacks by the Tzimisce, we still consider the lands around the Carpathians our primary home. The fortress Ceoris, greatest of our chantries and home to the founder of our clan, lies deep within the mountain fastness. As rivals of the Tzimisce threaten the voivodes’ hold on the region, among them the Eastern lords of Clan Ventrue and agents of the Toreador and Brujah clans, we find it possible to reassert ourselves - though in secrecy - in some of the emerging cities. In Prague and Krakow, where universities rise as centers of learning for mortals, we have established inconspicuous chantries and offer discrete alliances with non-Tzimisce vampires. In the cities of the Siebenburg and in Romania, we extend our presence as well. For us, the long nights of occupation are underway.

In Poland and Lithuania, a few Tremere outposts now rise, feeding on the vitality of the pagan populations of these regions. Although the Tzimisce still hold sway over these realms, other clans beside our own have succeeded in contesting the Fiends’ claim to the land. THE BRITISH ISLES

Mithras and the Ventrue control much of England, al- though the Toreador contest them vigorously in a few areas outside London. In the city itself, we have acquired a few allies who may yet ease the way for our entrance into Cainite society. IS SANGUINIS 2 . .

Although the ancient prince of London has no love for our clan, we have managed - as you well know - to make a few inroads. Here in Durham, far from the interference of Mithras and those who hold Glastonbury, we hope to stay far enough away from the affairs of London to pursue our interests in peace and gather the strength that we need to expand our influence. Eventually, we hope to spread into Scotland and Ireland, taking advantage of the residual pagan magic that still permeates those outlying lands. FRANCE

The Toreador hold nearly uncontested sway over most of the lands of France outside of the region of Brittany, where the Norman Ventrue maintain supremacy. Nevertheless, we have found that the new universities springing up in Paris and some of the other growing cities provide us with ideal locations for building chantries. Tremere has sent Goratrix to oversee the expansion of our clan’s interests in Caesar’s Gallia. His re- sourcefulness - along with his Gargoyle servitors - should prove useful in protecting our new French chantries.

In the south of France, both Tours and Marseilles hold promise for the growth of our clan. Marseilles, in particular, offers many advantages for us. Lacking a prince and governed by Cainite trading interests, the port city provides us with ample space in which to maneuver, provided we do not conflict with the mercantile aims of the Ventrue and the Lasombra. HOLY ROMAN EMPIRE

In the land of Germany, we stand to gain one of our strongest spheres of influence, due to the interclan rivalry among Ventrue, Lasombra and Toreador. In exchange for certain tokens of assistance, we have had promise of support from the Ventrue. The ongoing - and clandestine - nego- tiations between Ashram, one of our clan’s most subtle agents, and the Ventrue Jurgen von Verden have helped us to insinu- ate ourselves in the duchies of Saxony, Silesia and Pomerania. We have accepted the invitation of Austria’s Ventrue to establish a chantry in Vienna. Already, it shows signs of becoming one of our most productive centers of research. IBERIA

Insofar as we can surmise, the Christian kingdoms of Castile and Leon, now combined into one state, fall under the dominion of the Lasombra and Brujah clans. Although we have chantries in Toledo and Santiago, we take great pains to conceal our presence lest we run afoul of the strength of the Church in these lands

In the southern lands of the Almohad Empire, we have only just begun to insert ourselves. The Assamite presence in this land of the Moors makes us exercise the greatest caution in our endeavors there. Nevertheless, we cannot ignore the prospect of studying the works of the Islamic scholars, many of them well-versed in occult learning.

The merchant cities of northern Italy exist in constant rivalry with each other, in both the mortal and the Cainite realms. We have taken advantage of that fact to establish chantries in a few of these cities, hoping to remain unnoticed until such time as we can afford to act openly. Though most Cainites avoid the Papal States, some of our more adventurous members have attempted to make contacts among the Nosferatu, who are rumored to have access to many of the underground libraries of the Eternal City. The acquisition of knowledge necessary to our great work makes the risk of positioning ourselves in Rome, though great, worth taking. THE BYZANTINE EMPIRE AND THE MUSLIM STATES My childe Abetorius - your own elder brother in blood - has the distinction of acting as both our emissary to Constantinople and our agent to the lands held by the forces of Islam. My latest communion with him informs me that he has made progress in his discussions with the Cainite Trinity who rule that magnificent center of civilization. He has received permission to establish a chantry within Constantinople. He has also embarked upon a search for one of our more rebellious childer who conceals herself somewhere within the city. His report that one of the Salubri lies secreted in Constantinople gives us cause for concern, since we cannot afford to allow any of Saulot’s line to remain active to conspire against us.

In the lands controlled by the Turks and the Arabs, we must walk carefully and inconspicuously. Although our allies among the Cappadocians may allow us passage through lands they control, the veneration in which many local Cainites hold Saulot’s children makes an open presence difficult to sustain.

Unlike most Cainites, who prefer to dwelt in solitary havens, we find our strength in numbers. As mages, we lived, for the most part, apart from the world, secure in our chantries. There we conducted our magical experiments and passed on our knowledge to our acolytes. The communal nature of our existence helped us form a bond of loyalty to one another and made our house strong.

We continue with the practice of residing in chantries, both for our protection and for the benefits we gain from the society of others like ourselves. In those chantries that still contain human magi, we strive to keep the truth of our natures hidden until such time as we can complete the transformation of all members of House Tremere. We, therefore, move quietly among our ignorant mortal colleagues lest they discover our secret before we have had time to administer the Embrace to all of them.

Our newer chantries - such as our own here in Durham - need maintain no such pretense. You have known of my vampiric state since your first draught of my vitae. The mortal servants and retainers who keep watch over us during the daylight hours believe what we condition them to believe. Our transformation has given us an astonishing control over the limited minds of our human servitors.

Within the safety of our chantries, we pursue as many interests as there are childer of Tremere. Each of us has her own research into the nature of our changed magic. You have seen the thaumaturgic experiments that I have conducted in my own laboratory and have helped dispose of my failures (and in some cases, of my successes as well). Each chantry strives to make some contribution to our clan’s growing storehouse of occult knowledge.

Most chantries house a library of scrolls and tomes col- lected during our days as magi of House Tremere. More recently, we have acquired other valuable books and writings from our dealings with other clans or through the efforts of the intrepid Celestyn, whose exploits have achieved an almost legendary status among our elders. In particular, his written accounts of his contacts with the Tzimisce have provided us with much material on our enemy and proven advantageous in helping us to combat them.

While a few of our chantries resemble fortresses or mon- asteries, thus affording us with a formidable array of physical defenses, some chantries - the smaller ones - use magical wards to render them unnoticeable and to provide proof against discovery and intrusion. In some cities, we disguise our chantries as herbalists’ shops, while in other places we must content ourselves with inhabiting the catacomb chambers beneath a ghouled chirurgeon’s or alchemist’s establishment. Even our largest chantries seldom hold more than two or three of our clan, but such numbers are enough to give us a venue for expansion.

Although I cannot divulge to you the locations of all our chantries, I may mention a few of the most prominent - and intriguing - ones. CEORIS

Once the heart of our Hermetic Order of magi, Ceoris now occupies a central position for our clan. Deep within the Carpathians, its stone walls steeped in the magic of the land itself, the fortress has survived wave after wave of assault from the Tzimisce and their minions, as well as from other super- natural enemies that haunt those desolate mountains. I cannot yet speak to you of the defenses that protect Ceoris, except to state that both magical and physical protections exist and that they have served to deter those who would come there unin-

vited. Were I to attempt to breach the wards that surround Ceoris without the express permission of its residents, I fear that even I would meet with an unhappy fate.

From his sanctum in the bowels of Ceoris, Goratrix discovered the means of our transformation. There, too, he created the Gargoyles, who served to turn the tide in our war against the Tzimisce. You have undoubtedly noticed the creature who perches high atop this tower - a gift from Goratrix to make certain that I was not without guardians here in Durham. I will speak more of it - and those like it - later. Our founder now sleeps in Ceoris, or so I believe. Etrius, one of the original seven who underwent the ritual of change along with Tremere, serves as the unceasing guardian of our clan’s Antediluvian. Even in his torpid state, Tremere still exercises a compelling presence throughout the clan; his efforts serve as a model for our own personal achievements as well as for our attainments as a lineage. DURHAM

This chantry, as you know, lies just outside the city of Durham, within sight of the cathedral that houses some of the holiest relics this isle offers. The tower we occupy has been here since Roman times. I have found it sufficient for our current needs, in particular because of its underground cham- bers and the passageway our servants have just completed. Upon my arrival here, I saw to the setting of the magical wards of Durham Tower as well as the strengthening of the fortifica- tions already in place.

Here we are far enough away from Prince Mithras’ court in London that we do not threaten him unduly with our presence. I have heard that he does not take kindly to our presence. That is something I hope to change, once we have established our right to this small plot of ground. And if this place fails, there will always be another - this green and pleasant land contains an abundance of suitable homes for us. Legends claim that the bones of the sainted Cuthbert are here, as are the longlost Lindisfame Gospels. There are the usual tales of pagan magics and standing stones as well, though you’ll find those anywhere in England that two rocks are piled on one another. Certainly, magical energies still course through the ground here, fed by the belief of the populace and the encouragement of the monks. The overwhelming aura of magic that permeates this ancient land, sacred to both pagans and Christians, reminds me of the magical resonance present throughout large parts of Transylvania.

Ceoris rose to prominence due to its proximity to the magic-rich soil of Eastem Europe; I have hopes that our Durham chantry will, in time, absorb some of the pervasive emanations of magic that surround it. Although we can no longer imbue ourselves with the vis of the land, its mystical energies- I believe - assist in our thaumaturgical endeavors and experiments and seep into the blood of the mortals upon whom we feed.

PARIS

Once head of the chantry at Ceoris, Goratrix now leads our spearhead in France. His chantry in Paris, so I hear, lies not far from the university district there. Goratrix and his follow- ers have constructed an underground labyrinth that serves to dissuade unwanted visitors. His Gargoyles act as guards and defenders, in addition to serving as his spies throughout the city. The Paris chantry should prove one of our strongest centers of scholarly research, as I am certain that Goratrix himself spends most of his evenings in his laboratories. His continuing efforts in studying the vampiric form have in- creased our knowledge of what we have become. VIENNA

The Vienna chantry has only recently come into exist- ence. Invited to the city by the Ventrue in order to help them strengthen their hold on the region, we have established a small but thriving community of Tremere near the heart of the city. Although I have few details as to the defenses of the Vienna chantry - overseen by Etrius himself, I am told - much effort has gone into concealing its location from the other Cainites of the city. Reports have come to me that the chantry’s library rivals the one in Ceoris. LITHUANIA

Perhaps the strangest of our chantries lies near the out- skirts of Riga. Since its formation shortly before Tremere formalized our clan through his assimilation of Saulot’s es- sence, the Riga chantry has preferred to remain only peripherally connected to the rest of our clan. We have received minimal communication from the Tremere of Riga, who hint that they have discovered a way to extract latent power from the land itself. This goes against everything we currently know about our state. Efforts to compel them to elaborate on their findings have proved unsuccessful. My personal belief is that the Lithuanian Tremere walk a danger- ous path, which may lead them outside the auspices of our clan. I must now speak to you of the strength of our blood and how we use it to bind us to one another and to the leaders of the clan. Along with the draught of my own vitae, which brought you into your new existence, you also took into your body a mixture of the blood of the members of the Inner I Oath Council. process, to thus the Tomorrow clan’s bringing elders evening, you - to myself the upon edge rising, included.

of confirming you will repeat -

a Blood this

I hope this does not dismay you. We require it of all newly Embraced Tremere for several reasons. Our existence at this moment - and for the foreseeable future - relies on our ability to exert a unified presence in the face of those who oppose us. That we must enforce such a predisposition of LIBELLUS SANGUINIS 2

loyalty upon you reflects the depth of the precautions we must take to preserve the secret of our existence. Our best childer understand this need; our worst feel “insulted” by the lack of trust. I have no doubts that we will number you among the former, however.

The current war for survival against mortal and immortal foes demands that we cleave to one another. The world views us as the monsters that we are; other Cainites view us as intruders. We have no allies save each other, and we must do everything in our power to excise any hint of betrayal from our ranks. You bear within you the mystical reminder of your kinship with those who first crossed over into the forbidden garden of the undying. Consider your draughts an oath offealty rather than a link in a chain of servitude. We all have masters. Yours are the elders of Clan Tremere. $\]IRE AND CHILDE

Blood binds you not only to your clan, but to your sire as well. In most clans, so far as we have discovered, the bond that exists between a new Cainite and her creator resembles the relationship between parent and child. This holds true for our clan, as well. More than that primal bond, however, are the other ties formed by the passing of my blood into your body. Just as a fledgling wizard serves a term of apprenticeship under his master, so, too, does your education into the ways of our clan fall to me to oversee. You have become my apprentice in thaumaturgical magics, and my legacy for the continuation of our clan.

Do you feel this connection? Once you learn the means, you may commune with me at any time and at any distance, merely through the enactment of a simple ritual. Our common blood enables this magic. THE QRGANIZATION QF CLAN TREMBRE We observe a rigid hierarchy within our clan for a number of reasons. We draw from our experience as a house of magi the importance of maintaining a stable order of prominence. The lines of instruction pass from elder to younger, from the more experienced to the less knowledgeable. This pyramidal struc- ture gives us a strength and harmony of form.

At the apex of our clan stands Tremere himself. Just below him in authority are the members of the Inner Council, those of us who first experienced the vampiric transformation. All clan policies come from this level of authority; Tremere has weightier matters to attend to. Below that are the chantry heads, who instruct those within their chantries and pass down the decisions of the Inner Council.

For the most part, those of us whose blood is stronger exercise power over those who are weaker. Most Cainites agree that this is the established order of our kind. Within our clan, however, strong blood alone does not constitute the sole criterion for authority. The most potent in blood are also, in

most cases, the most knowledgeable. The possession of knowl- edge and its attendant power sustains our right to guide those with lesser expertise.

Since we fight a war for survival, we must consider ourselves as an army of sorts. This lends additional justifica- tion to our need for leaders and followers. Thus, we have derived our present structure as the best means possible whereby we may defend ourselves from outside attack. G OUR NATURE

There remains much to impart to you with regard to our nature as Cainites. You must forgive me for a momentary expression of my personal bitterness in this matter. Unlike the clans who trace their beginnings to the early reaches of time, we came to this state of being as neophytes - unprepared in many ways for the restrictions of our unlife and untutored in the powers we possessed. Our road to self-knowledge has taken more than a century of study and experimentation, often at great cost. Other Cainites have been loath to assist us.

For decades, we labored under many misconceptions. We have had to struggle for every scrap of information we now possess about our heritage, our strengths, our weaknesses and our limitations. Remember that, and you will never feel the temptation to open yourself to anyone outside our clan. We stand alone on the fringes of the darkness, illuminated only by the light created by our own efforts. If we bloody our hands by our quest for enlightenment, it is because our enemies have forced us into a battle we did not begin.

Besides making him equal to the other clans’ Antedilu- vian founders, Tremere’s incorporation of the essence of Saulot also provided him with that ancient one’s knowledge of the ways of Cainites. Thus, we have corrected many of our early notions about ourselves. There exist two explanations of the origins of Cainites - one which identifies us with the cursed descendants of the murderer of Abel and one which proclaims us as the bastard children of Lilith, Adam’s exiled first consort and the mother of all witches. From time to time, Tremere has hinted of yet a third originof the race of vampires coming from somewhere in the East, but refuses further elaboration.

From our own experiments, we have learned to beware both sun and flame, but immersion in water has no adverse effect upon us. We need not slay those upon whom we feed, though we must take precautions to ensure that our vessels do not remember what has transpired or that, if they do, that they keep silent on the matter. We have still not solved the mystery of why a wooden stake through the heart only immobilizes, but does not destroy, us. Experiments with both living and non- living wooden weapons have proven inconclusive.

affects our inability to tolerate certain items or our reactions to certain natural phenomena. The vampiric condition expresses itself in a variety of ways among individuals within our clan. Some of us recoil from the symbols of faith, while others find that crosses and saintly images have little effect on them unless wielded by those of righteous fervor. In the Carpathians, the peasants use garlic to ward their homes fromcainite intrusion; in some cases, but not in all, this precaution proves successful. Some Tremere have discovered they are unable to cross running water. Others, like myself, have no difficulty negoti- ating even the swiftest streams.

The nature of our resting places also remains a topic of study. In the beginning, we imitated the habits of the captive Cainites we studied, sleeping in crypts or digging graves for ourselves in the grounds beneath our chantries. Now we know that such practices are not necessary, and that we only need conceal ourselves completely from the rays of the sun in order to survive the harsh hours of daylight. Nevertheless, some of us still persist in these morbid habits, whether out offear or out of a necessity to remind themselves of their closeness to the world of the dead. SPECULATIONS

While other Cainites content themselves with survival or sate their ambitionswithdreamsofpoliticalpower, we Tremere find the need to formulate a precise understanding of the cause of our supernatural state. Our wizardly tradition compels us to pursue the secrets of our undead nature regardless of the consequences. As a result, most of us have adopted one of several theories concerning our nature.

Some members of our clan believe that the vagaries of our existence stem from alchemical impurities engendered during the Embrace, when the sire’s blood fuses with the dying body of the childe. Imbuing the initial vitae fed to a childe with tinctures and infusions and then studying the resulting eccen- tricities has led to ambiguous and inconclusive observations. The transmutational process from human to Cainite seems to defy many of the known laws of material transformation.

Another group, led bycelestyn-when he isnot engaged in his exploratory endeavors - has attempted to link the variations that exist among us with astrological significance, plotting the conjunctions and oppositions of the stars at the hour of a new Tremere’s Embrace. The conviction that our exclusive attachment to the night proves our connection with the starry firmament seems to offer some promise of providing answers to why we differ from one another in small ways. By the precise calculations of the constellations’ movements throughout the heavens, the proponents of stellar attraction hope to ascertain why some of us awaken as soon as the sun has set while others remain in slumber until the first stars appear or until the rising of the moon.

A third school of thought seeks to measure the precise balance of bodily humours at the time of the Embrace, searching for correspondences between an overabundance of one of the four elemental fluids and its expression within the Cainite temperament. Thus, an imbalance of choleric humour results in a predisposition toward the condition known as frenzy, while an overly sanguine individual suffers from an excessive need for blood. Those individuals with an excess of phlegmatic humours often require longer periods of rest, while their melancholic counterparts succumb more easily to torpor. One group examines our separation from the natural order of life. Bypassing through the state of death without the departure of our souls to the place of judgment, these “natu- ralists” believe that our removal from the processes of life, death and the afterlife is responsible for our aversion to the sun as well as our extreme trepidation in the presence of flame. Proponents of this theory have yet to explain why the other elements - air, water and earth - do not affect us so adversely as fire.

My own particular interests lie toward the mystical experience of our transmutation. It is no coincidence that Tremere chose to send me to the Isle of Britain and that I elected to attempt to establish a chantry near the reputed resting place of the Holy Grail. The ingestion of the blood of our Cainite ancestors and our resulting transformation bear

some similarity in my own mind to the miracle of transubstan- tiation currently under dispute by Church theologians. Whether this means that we have transgressed or fulfilled divine law, that is the substance of my research.

I must also mention those among us who firmly believe that we have embraced the Devil’s works by becoming Cainites. These diabolists actively engage in all manner of barbarism and exercise their basest instincts toward humanity. They contend that, since we have transformed ourselves into min- ions of Hell, our true vocation lies in the proliferation of damnable actions. I fear for what might result if these debased members of our clan gain ascendancy within our ranks. EXPERIMENTS u Through alchemical and magical experimentation, we have increased both our knowledge of our place in the world and our ability to defend ourselves. Do not be afraid to use your keen mind in the pursuit ofoccult understanding. Had Goratrix not dared to combine the essences of Gangrel, Nosferatu and Tzimisce Cainites into a mystical amalgam, we would not now control the Gargoyles who so ably interpose themselves be- tween us and our foes.

In addition to the work of Goratrix, other Tremere are engaged in studying the effects of our vitae upon mortals; so far, we have learned its efficaciousness in promoting rapid healing of near-fatal wounds and its retardation of the aging process in

I

our ghoul servants. You yourself benefited for many years from the life-prolonging essence of my blood before I bestowed the Embrace upon you.

My most recent experiments have to do with, not the nature of our vitae, but rather the bestial transformation that overwhelms us when we succumb to frenzy. Tests that I have performed upon the few Gangrel I have been able to capture have enabled me to understand, in part, the odd metamorpho- sis that results from their losses of control. It is my hope that by provoking my current subject into repeated bouts of fury, I can determine the stage at which a Cainite ceases to resemble anything remotely human and gives herself over entirely to her bestial inner nature. So far, I have been unable to reverse the process, but all knowledge -even the awareness of one’s failures -has its uses.

One area of experimentation fills me with trepidation; only my trust in you allows me to mention its existence. There are some Tremere who seek to discover what effect our Cainite nature has upon summoned spirits. As human magi, we had strong prohibitions as to the nature of spirits we could com- mand and the conditions under which they might be summoned. We do not know if our altered state of being has affected our ability to make compacts with creatures from the spirit realm. Unfortunately, I suspect that some members of our clan have decided to test our influence over infernal spirits. I believe that the idea of summoning and binding demons does not appeal to you. See that it continues to exercise no pull upon your inquisitive mind.

Your own inclinations will undoubtedly draw you toward experiments of your own devising. For the time being, I shall act as your instructor in the proper procedures, in order to bring you to the point at which you may pursue your own theories without my constant supervision. Above all, you must learn to exercise caution both in choosing your experi- mental subjects and indisposingof the remains of your studies. The monks of the nearby abbey believe us to be a communit of cloistered scholars and, thus, do not interfere with us. desire that this situation continues, so that our work ma proceed without interruption.

The hour grows late; the darkness of the night will soon give way to false dawn, at which time we must make our way below ground. Your exile from the sunlit world begins with this day’s dawning. Do not give in to the temptation, however great, to test the truth of your susceptibility to the sun. With the passing of time, if you are fortunate, you may forget your longing for the sun’s warmth and the garish colors of the day. Learn to content yourself instead with passing your nights in such a fever of study and learning that the coming of day brings only thoughts of repose.

destroy us. Until we have completed the transformation of the rest of House Tremere, we cannot afford the smallest hint of our secret to filter to the other Hermetic houses. Yet, at the same time, we must not Embrace too many of our kind without the means to ensure their survival. I cannot caution you too much about our beleaguered state.

Here in England, we do not experience the constant sense of peril that our clanmates in Eastern Europe feel, yet we must maintain our vigilance. We prefer to provoke as few conflicts as possible. It is enough that the Tzimisce, Nosferatu and Gangrel desire our destruction; we do not need to add other clans to the ranks of our foes. Our prospects for achieving acceptance in a land not dominated by our enemies gives us some latitude; we must, therefore, make the best use of our relative security to further our advancement without antagonizing other elements of Cainite society.

We cultivate the appearance of supplicants among those clans who fall prey to flattery; among those who value learning, we assume our most scholarly mien; to the dilet- tantes, we strive to emphasize our aesthetic sensibilities. Those who seek political power need to see us as worthy supporters of their ambitions. To the mortal world, we must appear - when we appear at all - as scholars, pedants and recluses. If this dissembling strikes you as deceptive and furtive, keep in mind that in being false to others, we remain true to ourselves. Usurpers they may call us, but we only take what we deem is our rightful portion of eternity.

Tomorrow evening, after you have partaken once more of the elders’ vitae and thus entered fully into the communion of blood, I will begin your instruction in thaumaturgical magic, along with the other abilities in- nate to our clan. We will also seek to determine whether you possess any aversions or repulsions to garlic, holy symbols or other objects so that you may know what, if anything, you must avoid. The process of finding vessels to satisfy your hunger for blood will grow easier as you learn to separate yourself from the kine upon whom you feed. In time, your growing powers will act as proof to you of the distance you have come from your mortal life.

For now, rest content in the knowledge that you have successfully passed your first night among the undying. From now on, in an endless procession of nights, your existence belongs not to God or the Devil or even to yourself, but to all of us who dared to abandon the carefully tended garden of humanity for the limitless vista of eter- nity. No longer must you dwell in terror of that which you cannot comprehend. In becoming one of the Usurpers, you have become the terror that others cannot fathom. This is your legacy, bequeathed to you, through the gift of my blood, by Tremere himself. May you prove worthy of the trust that has been placed in you this night.

impresses Unlike the other Cainite clans of the Dark Medieval

itself upon the Usurpers, impelling them to delve period, the Tremere cannot call upon millennia of history and

even deeper into their damnation in order to understand its experience to guide them through the complexities of survival

demands in hopes of overcoming them. in a world grown suddenly unfamiliar and perilous. They have had to learn through trial and error how to cope with the dangers created by their transformation. The Usurpers’ rela- tive youth as aclan has resulted in a curious mixture of naivete and inventiveness. Although it has learned much about Cainite nature since 1022, Clan Tremere’s knowledge of Cainite society and the fine points of vampiric existence remains incomplete. In some instances the Tremere commit

The need to swell their ranks in order to increase their howling errors of etiquette and tactics; in others gain advan-

chances for survival has led the Tremere to begin an active tage from unique and creative solutions in situations where

search for promising recruits. The Usurpers still give prior- other Cainites’ responses are bound by the shackles of tradi-

ity to those mortal mages already within their ranks, tion. marking them as primary candidates for the Embrace, but

Above everything else hangs a sense of urgency. Clan

there are simply not enough mortal magi remaining within Tremere’s genesis as vampires has embroiled it in a bloody conflict with several clans, most notably the Tzimisce, whose blood formed the basis of the elixir that allowed the wizards to

the house for this to be anything more than a short-term solution. As the clan expands outward from their strong- hold in Ceoris, after Tremere’s diablerie of Saulot, the become Cainites. Clan Tremere’s penchant for experimenta-

Usurpers have undertaken a concerted effort to find and tion on captured Cainites has also aroused the anger of both

Embrace other likely individuals. the Gangrel and Nosferatu, the Usurpers’ favorite subjects for

Mortals with a strong interest in magic, alchemy, academics magical and alchemical research. Furthermore, the danger of

or astrology attract the Tremere. The Usurpers frequently choose the vampires’ discovery by the other houses of mages within

promising candidates as “apprentices,” leading these talented the Order of Hermes (with which House Tremere still remains

mortals to believe that they have embarked on a study of the affiliated) grows nightly. The Tremere realize that they can-

occult arts. After a suitable period of training, which sometimes not maintain their ruse indefinitely, and thus frantically seek

includes making the apprentice into a ghoul servant of her to complete the transformation of all the magi within their

master, the candidate receives the Embrace. house. Within five years, in 1202, the scandal of the house’s

The Tremere have also recognized the need to include vampirism will rock wizardly society. As a result, the Tremere

skilled warriors and diplomats among their number, and will be declared anathema and targeted for destruction by

have thus Embraced veteran soldiers and individuals with most of their former fellow magi.

highly developed skills for negotiation and etiquette. Oc- An aura of resignation also permeates the House of the

casionally, the Tremere select mortals connected to the Usurper. Having embarked on their fatal journey into the

Church in order to gain influence within that powerful realm of undeath, the Tremere see no recourse but to make the

institution, but the Lasombra and Toreador jealously weed best of their decision. Nightly, the horror of their existence

these Usurpers out. 1 1 WBELUIS SANGUINIS 2

For the Tremere, the Embrace takes the form of an initiation rite, surrounding the process of transforma- tion with the trappings of ritual magic. By maintaining the charade of an advanced occult ritual, the Usurpers

may thus entice even the most unwilling members of House Tremere into the vampiric fold. In Ceoris, where many unconverted members of the house still reside, mortal magi targeted for the change are summoned without warning into the presence of one of the Inner Council. Informed that they have been chosen to un- dergo a unique ritual of advancement, these human wizards usually submit willingly to the bizarre ritual of blood-draining and forced infusion of their sires’ vitae. The fledgling Cainite realizes the true implications of her transformation only when it is too late. While a few transformed magi rebel against their changed circum- stances, most of them quickly adapt to their new existence - particularly after they have been placed two-thirds of the way under the bonds of a Blood Oath to the elders of the clan.

Rather than allowing her childe to feed directly from her veins, a Tremere sire usually first drains her blood into a goblet and forces her childe to drink from it. This practice both enhances the ritualistic aspect of the Embrace and re-enacts the ceremony of the founders’ original transformation. At least two and sometimes more draughts of blood are thus fed to the new Tremere. The first goblet contains only the sire’s vitae, thus establishing the all-important bond between sire and childe. The second goblet, however, also contains a drop or two of the mixed blood of the clan elders. The

fledgling Tremere receives a second infusion of founders’ vitae (but not her sire’s) on the evening following the Em- brace, bringing the childe to the verge of a Blood Oath to the founders of the clan.

A Tremere who desires to Embrace a mortal usually makes extensive preparations before doing so - including securing the necessary mixture of blood from the clan’s founders. Special couriers, known as “redcaps,” serve the Order of Hermes (including House Tremere) by traveling from chantry to chantry, delivering messages and transport- ing valuable items for their masters. Occasionally, these servitors’ duties include delivering a vial of precious liquid (founders’ vitae) to certain chantries. At other times, this responsibility goes to trusted ghoul servants or to recent neonates (and their unsuspecting coteries).

Each newly Embraced Tremere formally swears an oath of loyalty to Tremere, the elders, her sire and her clan. Conducted either during the ritual of transformation itself or shortly thereafter, this complicated oath carries with it a mystical compulsion that makes it a difficult one to break.

Although the Tremere occasionally resort to the “battlefield Embrace” in circumstances which require spon- taneity, individuals so transformed receive the founders’ vitae and formally swear their oaths of loyalty as soon afterward as possible.

E

In Lithuania, Clan Tremere has transformed itself into a unique bloodline. Since it separated itself from the main branch of the Tremere before the clan founder diablerized Saulot and solidified his place as an Antedilu- vian, this cadet bloodline has diverged from its parent in several significant ways.

Taking their name from the Lithuanian god Telyavel, the protector of the dead, the Tremere of Lithuania form an exclusively pagan branch of their clan. Unable to recover from the original horror of their transformation into Cainites, a small group of new Tremere left Ceoris purportedly to assist in the spread of their new clan’s influence in the world. Inreality, they desired only to search for some means of reversing the catastrophic change they had undergone.

In the wilds of Lithuania, these Tremere discovered a refuge among the pagan population, who saw them as incarna- tions of Telyavel (or Kaleval) and welcomed the newcomers into their midst as priests and shamans. Discarding the name “Tremere,” these Cainites began referring to themselves as Telyavs, reserving their former clan name only for blessedly rare interactions with chantries outside Lithuania.

In addition, the Telyavs sensed a mystical emanation from the land, one which permeated the soil, forests and animals. They learned from their pagan followers that this “emanation” came from the Siela, the part of the spirit that remains bound to the world after death and also inhabits animals, plants and even stones. Excited by this discovery, the Telyavs soon developed a Thaumaturgical Path based on combining their vitae with soil, the sap of trees or the blood of animals, producing a variety of effects. In addition, their deliberate closeness to the vis-rich soil itself enables them to draw upon the metamorphic aspects of their Tzimisce blood. Unlike their colleagues elsewhere in Europe, who prefer to distance themselves from mortals and conduct their busi- ness in secret, Telyavs operate openly among the pagan population of Lithuania. Their nocturnal habits and sangui- nary tastes seem utterly appropriate for their roles as servants of the protector of the dead. While they do insist on keeping their chantries’ locations secret, they move about in human society with relative freedom.

Though the Telyavelic Tremere are no closer to restoring their original humanity than they were when they first sepa- rated themselves from their parent clan, they have managed to attain a compensatory sense of connection with the living world. By assuming the duties of priests and shamans, they have also carved out for themselves a place in pagan society as a bridge between the living and the dead.

t A

) 1 1

Sobriquet: Shepherds Appearance: Unlike most Tremere elsewhere in the Dark Medieval world, the Telyavelic Tremere actively Em- brace women, seeing them as embodiments of the dark mother-goddess figures of local paganism. Although the majority of this group is still male, nearly a third is female, and many of these were Embraced in middle age. Eschewing the somber clothing of their more scholarly parent clan, the Telyavs dress to fit in with the local population, adopting either the dress of the common folk or the robes and symbols of their newly adopted patron deity.

Haven: The majority of Telyavs occupy a chantry near Riga. Situated in a copse of trees atop a sacred hill, this chantry remains one of the clan’s best-kept secrets. While other Tremere know that it exists, only the Telyavs know of its location. A few other chantries of this bloodline exist throughout Lithuania and Poland. Occasionally, a lone Telyav dwells among her pagan followers, protected by ghouls. In addition to their chantries, Telyavelic Tremere often have secondary homes, which also serve as shrines for pagan worship.

Background: Candidates for the Embrace must come from the ranks of pagans. Many of them are priests and priestesses of the old religion. Lithuania has become a battle- ground between the pagan tribes and the Christian Order of the Sword, so a few Telyavs also come from warrior stock.

Character Creation: Telyavelic Tremere generally have shamanic or druidic concepts. As in their parent clan, Mental Attributes and Knowledges assume primary importance in most cases, although a warrior may emphasize Physical At- tributes and Talents. Natures and Demeanors usually reflect the Telyavs’ pagan outlook. Backgrounds include Allies (their mortal pagan followers) and Influence. Most often they follow either the Road of the Beast or the Road of Humanity.

Disciplines: Auspex, Presence, Thaumaturgy

Weaknesses: Telyavelic Tremere find it difficult to counteract the effectsofTrue Faithor the display ofChristian holy symbols. Difficulties to resist frenzy are two higher than usual when confronted by an enemy who uses her True Faith as a defense, and Telyavs recoil from the sight of the cross or other symbols of the Christian faith.

Organization: The Tremere of Lithuania adhere to a modified pyramid. Each generation drinks twice of the blood of the previous generation, thus bringing them to the verge of forming a Blood Oath with their sires’ generation. Typically, a number of Telyavs gather together to oversee the Embrace of a new member, thus ensuring a sufficient supply of elder blood to establish the hierarchical bond between genera- tions. Destiny: The Telyavelic Tremere continue to exist until the 16th century, when the union of Lithuania and Poland results in the triumph of the Christian religion over

paganism. Hunted by the Church, they are eventually wiped out in a grand conflagration that destroys their main chantry and most of its members. Within a few years, the remaining Telyavs are captured and destroyed by the Inquisition and the armies of the new Christian state.

Quote: The Earth and all that dweUs within and upan it expose their secrets to me. Through the power ofmy blood, I become all things.

NEW Tmas MERITS AND FLAWS NATURAL VICISSITUDE (5 MERIT)

You have “mheritd” more of your clan’s stolen Tzimisce blood than most of your clanmates and have thus become something of a throwback to your “parent” clan. You may, thetefore, choose Vicis- situde, rather than Dominate, as a clan h i p l i n e . Improving your rating at Vicissitude, however, may present dfficulties. Unless you can locate another Tremere willig and able to teach you further mastery of Vicissitude’s higher levels, you must seek further instruc- tion from the Tzimisce (most likely through coercion). FALSE THIRD EYE (4 m Fmw)

For reasons unknown to you or your sire, your Embrace left you with the imprint of a third eye upon your forehead. This reminder of Tremere’s diablerie of Saulot renders you both an embarrassment to other members of your clan and a figure of distrust to all except those who know you. The “third eye” does not open or function. Unless you conceal it under a hood or beneath your hair, the stigma is obvious to all who see you. All Social rolls are at +2 difficulty whenever you interact with any Cainites other than your coterie or closest allies. Attempting to pass as a Salubri is not advisable.

The war between the Tremere and the Tzimisce in Eastern Europe often involved more than combat between Cainites. Bothusurpers and Fiends pit mortal armies against one another on the battlefield and in siege warfare. The necessity of main- taining and moving troops and supplies from one place to another in a timely fashion led to the development of a form of Thaumaturgy to assist in rapid transportation. This path lasts until the 19th century, when scientific discoveries enable the invention of steam-powered travel (such as the railroad), thus making this form of Thaumaturgy obsolete.

AY OF PASSAGE This Path allows the thaumaturgist to endow swifter than normal movement and, in some cases, increased endurance to objects or creatures other than himself. Thus, horses can run faster and farther, and draft animals can pull wagons and siege machines at greater speeds and for longer periods of time.

System: In addition to the standard expenditure of blood and a Willpower roll, the player rolls Manipulation + Animal Ken (difficulty 7) and spends an additional Willpower point for each Attribute the vampire wishes to affect. Only one roll needs to be made regardless of whether or not the vampire is affecting a mount’s speed or endurance or both. The number of successes determines the number of days (24 hours) the effects last. Note that this is not useful in combat. Although the mount moves faster, the rider does not benefit from this with extra actions and, in fact, may find the increased speed of his mount a detriment to successful combat maneuvers. Rapid travel from one place to another remains the primary focus of this power. This power does not act as an alternative to Celerity or Fortitude and cannot be

used on humans, Cainites or other’supernaturals.

No individual descriptions are necessary for each level of this Path, since the effects remain consistent; only the number of individuals or objects affected increases as the thaumaturgist gains mastery of the Path. The Storyteller may modify the following effects to allow for combinations of ridden mounts and those used to pull wagons.

0 One mount

0 .

0.0

Up to six mounts or one laden wagon Up to 12 mounts or four supply wagons Up to 24 mounts or eight supply wagons or one siege machine Up to 48 mounts or 16 supply wagons or

Utilizing the power of the Siela, or the animistic spirit latent in the earth, stones, plants and animals, the Tremere of Lithuania have devised a pair of Thaumaturgical Paths that allow them to assume aspects (and in some cases, the 1 forms) of animate or inanimate objects. Based on shamanic practices, these Paths combine aspects of both nature- and spirit-based magic. Some Tremere outside Lithuania be- lieve this Path to be an offshoot of koldunic sorcery, a province of the Tzimisce, and look upon those who prac- tice the Sielanic Paths with suspicion and distrust.

Telyavelic Tremere always learn one of the two ) Sielanic Paths as their primary Thaumaturgical Path. Other Tremere may learn either Path by studying with a Telyavelic Tremere. Non-Tremere may also learn this

I

Path, provided they already possess knowledge of Thaumaturgy and can convince a Telyavelic Tremere to teach it to them.

The Sielanic Paths disappear with the extinction of the Telyavelic Tremere bloodline; with the resurgence of pagan- ism in 20th-century Lithuania, a few Cainites there attempt to rediscover the lost principles of Sielanic Thaumaturgy based on incomplete and sketchy records. PATH OF THE

This power allows the vampire to become part of the natural world that surrounds her, partaking of the abilities inherent in the earth, trees, rocks and life forms of any ground to which she has attuned herself. While most practitioners of this Path regularly use it within their “home” territories, a simple ritual (see below) enables the character to attune herself to any plot of ground provided she has sufficient time in which to do so.

This Path occasionally requires the vampire to ingest some rather foul concoctions of her own blood mixed with animal blood, soil, even leaves and grass. It remains a con- tinual mystery (particularly to those outside the Telyavelic circles) how the practitioners of this Path can drink these mixtures without promptly heaving them. Some Telyavs claim that study of the Path prepares one for such necessities, while

others posit that a form of transubstantiation, such as that which is said to change the bread and wine during Mass, is at work. Whatever the reason, the Telyavs continue to swallow and work their magic without difficulty.

Note: Sielanic Thaumaturgy is not quite traditional Thaumaturgy. As a result, it uses the same roll as the normal Discipline except when specifically stated otherwise.

EYES OF THE EARTH

The vampire“sees”everything that goes on within 10 miles of her haven (or shrine) by utilizing the spirits of the grass and other plants, trees, rocks and animals in the vicinity. Thus, a Telyavelic Tremere dwelling within her chantry may know instantly of the approach of worshippers or strangers. In addi- tion, she can also view events transpiring within the range ofher attunement. Suchvisionsdonotcome with handy explanations, though. No sound comes through, and unless the Telyavelic can read lips, she cannot know anything that is being said in a spied- upon location. Further, if the sorcerer wishes to keep track of a particular person as he travels, and if she views him for longer thanonenight, shemust locatehimonceagainaftereachbroken contact (to sleep or perform other actions, for example).

System: The vampire ingests an infusion of her own vitae mixed with soil, grass shoots, leaves, animal fur and bird feathers (or blood from these creatures). The number of successes achieved on the Willpower roll determines the duration of the subsequent “earth-sight.”

1 success one turn 2 successes one hour 3 successes one night 4 successes one week 5 successes one month

0 0 ROOTS OF POWER

This ability enables the Sielanic practitioner to draw upon the power latent in the earth itself to enhance her own physical abilities -so long as she remains in contact with the soil.

System: The vampire expends a blood point by cut- ting the soles of her feet and letting her blood soak into the naked earth. The number of successes gained from the Willpower roll determines the number of points the vam- pire can add to her Physical Attributes. No single Attribute may be raised above 5. For example, three successes allow the character to add one point each to Strength, Dexterity and Stamina, three points to any one Attribute, or two points to one Attribute and one point to a second. The duration of this effect is one scene, and the effect covers an area of approximately 50 feet around the vampire’s origi- nal position (i.e., where the Cainite’s blood first touched the soil).

The vampire uses this ability to seek refuge within the living wood of trees. Thus, he is able to encase his body within any tree that stands inside his realm of attunement. In this fashion, he may conceal his presence from enemies. His aura blends with that of the tree in such a way that increases by two the difficulty of detecting his presence through Soulsight. In addition, the character may use any Disciplines and abilities not dependent on physical gestures that he possesses; although the vampire can “see” his surroundings, he cannot make eye contact with specific creatures, so any power which requires meeting the victim’s gaze does not function. Should the vampire enter a tree to avoid the coming dawn, he is protected from the sun so long as he stays within the tree. If the tree is chopped down, the vampire suffers five levels of damage and is forced out of the trunk; setting the tree afire inflicts the same amount of aggravated damage.

System: The vampire drinks a mixture of blood and tree- sap prior to the player expending a blood point and making a Willpower roll. A single success allows the vampire to remain inside a tree for one turn; two successes extend the duration for an entire scene. Three or more successes allow the vampire to maintain his position within a single tree for up to 24 hours. When the time limit expires, the tree ejects the vampire.

COURSE OF THE BEAST This power give the Sielanic practitioner the power to assume the shape of any animal that exists within her domain and, in some cases, to change from one animal form to another. The vampire gains all the physical attributes and skills of the chosen creature, although she retains her undead nature in all forms. While transformed, the vampire may use any mental Disciplines she possesses, as well as other powers the Story- teller considers reasonable within the limitations of her form. The ability lasts from moonrise to moonrise.

System: The vampire mixes her own blood with that of an animal and drinks it, then expends three blood points to activate the power. Each success on a Willpower roll (diffi- culty 7) grants the character the ability to shift into one animal form. Thus, three successes enable the vampire to assume the shape of a deer for swift travel, then transform into a fish to conceal herself and move about easily under water, and, finally, take on the form of a bird to fly to safety.

WAY OF THE STONE The vampire uses this power to transform himself into what resembles a stone dolmen. As such he can withstand the rigors of daylight and is immune to flame. In addition, he can even move about in a very limited fashion. The legends of stones that walk and move about during the night come from the practice of this potent art.

System: The vampire expends three blood points by allowing his blood to drain onto a boulder, at which point he assumes the boulder’s rough shape and consistency. The num-

ber of successes gained on the Willpower roll (difficulty 7) determines how long he may remain in his stone form. The features of the vampire become indistinct, taking on a semi- carved aspect with barely discernible facial features and body parts. Nevertheless, his eyes, ears, mouth and appendages all function normally, except that the difficulty for all physical actions are increased by two and movement is at one-fourth normal rate.

1 success 1 turn 2 successes 1 scene 3 successes 1 hour 4 successes 1 night 5 successes 1 week 6+ successes 1 month These durations represent the maximum time limit; the vampire may abort the effect earlier if he wishes.

Through this power, the Sielanic practitioner reaches across the border between life and death, using her own unliving body as a conduit for contact with the world of the dead. In addition, at more advanced levels of this path, the sorcerer is able to touch the essence of Telyavel himself.

This path disappears with the demise of the Telyavelic bloodline, though it is rumored to have become subsumed as part of Dark Thaumaturgy and other Infernal Disciplines (see Dark Ages Companion for more information).

(Note: For more information on dealing with the souls of the dead, see Wraith: The Oblivion and Vampire: The Dark Ages, specifically pp. 255-258) SEE THE DEAD

The vampire can view the ghosts of the dead that inhabit the area upon which she focuses her attention. In addition, she can determine the general attitude of these wraiths. Relatives of a person who has recently died often seek out the local shaman to ask whether the soul of the departed seems content or if it needs propitiating in some fashion.

System: The vampire must expend a blood point and concentrate on a specific area. The player then makes a Willpower roll. A single success allows the vampire to detect the presence of any wraiths (or Spectres) in the vicinity of her concentration. More successes allow her to determine details about the ghost’s attitude. ) REPEL THE ANGRY DEAD With this power, the vampire can banish hostile ghosts from a designated area, such as the home of a relative of the angry wraith. In some cases, the banishment is only temporary or is attendant on the performance of some action intended to appease the ghost.

System: The vampire must first locate the angry wraith (through the use of See the Dead). His player then spends a blood point and rolls the character’s Willpower. The number of successes obtained determines the number of hours the banished ghost remains away from the designated location (a house, a grave, etc.). The vampire can determine if certain actions need to be taken to ensure the permanent repulsion of the ghost through a second Willpower roll (difficulty 8); only a single success is necessary for the vampire to ask the ghost what must be done to satisfy it.

COMMAND THE FRESHLY DEAD The vampire can command any ghost that she can see to obey her. With this power, the practitioner may receive answers to questions within the ghost’s realm of awareness or require the soul to deliver amessage to someone else. Additional simple tasks fall within the parameters of this power, although the vampire cannot compel the ghost to do anything that requires a material form to accomplish.

System: The vampire must first use See the Dead to locate a desirable ghost. Then comes a contested Willpower roll against the wraith (most ghosts have 5 Willpower). For each success the Cainite ghost command .... answers achieves ARMY of the one sorcerer. over question OF the SOULS

successes or performs scored one by the action wraith, at the the

The Sielanic practitioner uses this power to raise a spec- tral troop to act as defenders or to deliver warnings to her enemies. These ghosts appear as ethereal images of warriors long dead. Although the tattered images cannot materialize completely in the physical world, they can use their own powers to hurl objects or frighten away attackers.

System: This power costs two blood points and demands a Willpower roll (difficulty 7). The number of successes determines how many ghosts (mindless shells of the dead, called Drones) the Cainite can summon. The ghosts return to their rest at the end of the night upon which they were summoned. WALK THE ROAD OF SHADOWS This power enables the vampire to cross physically the barrier between the world of the living and the world of the dead and enter the Underworld (or Shadowlands) for a brief period of time. While she is in this dark and barren realm, she appears to its denizens as a particularly solid wraith. She can interact with wraiths freely while in their realm, although she has no control over how they will regard her. Any combat that ensues causes real damage to both the sorcerer and her wraithly foe. Sielanic practitioners who function as priests sometimes use this ability to transport mortals into the Underworld as part of a shamanic initiation ritual.

System: This power costs three blood points and two Willpower, and requires a Willpower roll (difficulty 8). A single success allows the Cainite to penetrate the Shroud and enter the LIBELLUS SANGUINIS 2

the Underworld. Three successes enable her to take another person along with her. The sorcerer may remain in the Underworld until dawn forces her to leave, until she flees, or she is driven out by its residents. This power does not allow

ritual to reestablish his tie with the land. The Storvteller should assist the player in determining the precise manifestations of this ability so that its uses don’t wreak undue havoc on the story. travel SIELANIC into the deeper RITUALS

Underworld.

ONE BECOME RITUAL)

ONE WITH THE LAND (LEVEL This ritual enables the Sielanic caster to attune her- self to a specific plot of ground; the area covered may not exceed 10 square miles but may be less than that. The caster combines her own blood with several handfuls of earth from the land she wishes to claim. By covering her body with this mixture before going to sleep for the day, the vampire is able to absorb the essence of the land into herself. Thereafter, she is able to enact the powers of the Path of the World’s Blood within the area designated before the enactment of the ritual. Whenever a Sielanic practitioner relocates or travels to another place, she may attune herself to her new location in the same fashion. She may only be attuned to one place at a time, although she may renew lapsed attunements by repeating the ritual.

System: The vampire combines her blood with some natural substance (such as animal blood, tree sap or soil) to effect the desired result. After the ingestion this mix- ture, the next step is the expenditure of two blood points and a Willpower roll (difficulty 7). The number of suc- cesses determines the duration, intensity or range of the desired effect.

EARL)

UL OF THE LAND (LEVEL FOUR This extremely powerful ritual grants the caster an almost complete identification with his domain. He becomes“one with the land” and, through this intimate connection, instantly knowsof anything that threatens the land or its creatures. He can tell if something is wrong with the soil (and thus give advice on how to ameliorate the problem). Additionally, he knows the location of any hostile forces, can predict weather patterns that affect his domain, and can exercise subtle control over the features of the land itself. He can cause trees to move slightly to obscure paths through forests, change the course of streams or widen them to make crossing difficult or cause boulders to rise out of the earth to block a mountain pass.

System: The caster buries himself in agrave near the center of his domain, remaining within the earth for one full day. Upon arising the following evening, he imbibes an infusion ofhis blood combined with the soil in which he has lain, thus uniting his essence with that of the land. Periodic expenditures of blood (eight blood points per week) can maintain the connection indefinitely. If a week passes without the caster spilling his blood into the ground, the connection breaks; the caster must repeat

TOUCH FIVE RITUAL)

THE PROTECTOR’S MIND (LEVEL This ritual links the caster’s mind with that ofTelyave1, the protector of the dead. This ability is only used in extreme circumstances, such as when an invading army threatens the protected realm of the sorcerer. By drawing upon the essence of this ancient being, the vampire is able to enhance her Physical and Mental Attributes and gains access to powers beyond her normal abilities.

System: The vampire spends one hour in meditation, focusing her thoughts upon establishing contact with the mind of Telyavel. The Cainite’s player then expends five blood points and makes a Willpower roll (difficulty 9). A single success puts her in contact with the mind of Telyavel. The caster immediately gains 10 dice to allot to her Physical or Mental Attributes in any combination, though she may not increase any Attribute beyond its normal maximum. In addition, all her Disciplines function as if she had one additional level in them, including enabling her to use powers she has not yet mastered. The ritual also confers upon the vampire the ability to remain awake during daylight hours and provides some immunity from sunlight, provided the caster does not directly expose herself to the sun’s rays (i.e., she must remain in the shade or under some sort of cover). This ability lasts from one moonrise to the next. No successes means that the caster fails in her attempt to touch the death god’s mind. A botch means that the vampire takes five levels of aggravated damage (which she may attempt to soak). In addition, the vampire may acquire a permanent Derangement (unless her player is successful in a Willpower roll) from touching the god’s EW mind BACKGROUND

too closely without receiving his favor.

FAMILIAR

Although your Embrace has deprived you of the ability to function as a magus, it did not break the bond you had with your familiar. This bound spirit may take the form of any small animal, such as a cat, raven, mouse, frog or other creature normally associated with magi or witches. Conversely, the familiar may appear as a homunculus or mannikin. Large animals (horses, goats, bears and the like) as well as magical creatures (such as dragons) are not available as familiars. The number of points you put into purchasing your familiar indi- cates its relative power. Only Tremere characters who were magi before receiving the Embrace may take this Background. Although it no longer acts precisely as a magi’s familiar might, your bound spirit still performs simple tasks and minor guardianship duties for you. It also holds you to the agreements

RELATIONS made upon initially binding it to your service, however, so you must adhere to those terms in order to keep its favor. The benefits purchased at each level include all the ones from

Because of their recent arrival in Cainite society, the lower levels.

Tremere have only just begun to establish relations with many 0 Your familiar performs minor services but does

of the other clans. While their origins and certain of their not risk itself for you.

practices have placed them at odds with a number of clans, the Your familiar acts as an early warning to alert

Tremere yet have hopes of allying themselves with a number you of the presence of intruders, but does not prevent them

of the remaining Cainite groups. Above all, the Tremere have from entering your haven.

made it a habit to study Cainite society carefully in order to Your familiar can perform fairly complicated

learn as much as possible about the interactions between clans tasks and act as a messenger for you. It also attempts to deter

and, armed with that knowledge, take advantage of each clan’s hostile creatures from entering your haven, although it does

weaknesses. This mixture of curiosity and the Tremere’s in- not confront them directly.

nate arrogance combine to grind the lens through which the 0 Your familiar has developed a true fondness for

Usurpers view the other supernatural denizens of their world. you despite your unliving state and your lack of standard magic. It not only acts as an assistant (within the limits of its form), it may incur minor risks to its own material form in order to protect you from harm.

0 0 0 0 .Your familiar has a vew strong bond with you

ASSAMITE

As the Tremere spread their influence eastward to Constantinople and westward to Spain and the Almohad Empire, they encountered the seemingly exotic paynims. The Tremere’s familiarity with some of the ancient occult lore of the Levant, Asia and northern Africa has given them an interest in learning more of the secrets of the Assamites, but opportunities to indulge that interest have been few and far between. Since they have occasionally found themselves targets of these Cainite assassins, the Tremere have quickly developed a healthy respect for the

WBELLUS SANGUINIS 2

Assamites’ powers of stealth and their death-dealing abil- ity. Usurpers regard most Assamites with wariness and keep their distance from them. BRUJAH

While the Tremere understand neither the Brujah‘s in- fatuation with lost Carthage nor their undying hatred of the Ventrue, the Usurpers recognize a potential enemy in the Zealots. The diablerie of Saulot has incensed many of the older Brujah, who harbored great respect for Saulot and his childer. In areas where the Brujah hold power, the Tremere attempt to go about their business as quietly as possible. C APPADOCIANS

The Tremere view the Cappadocians with outright envy. These Cainites seem to have a profound understand- ing of the secrets of death, and it is for merely a fraction of this understanding that the Tremere have already given their very lives. The Tremere actively seek out members of the Graverobbers in order to exchange knowledge with them, hoping to increase their own body of mystical information through discourse and the occasional theft. Unfortunately, the Cappadocians do not hold the Tremere in high regard, as the Cappadocians feel there is little knowledge the Tremere can offer them that they do not already possess. FOLLOWERS OF SET

Unlike many of their fellow Cainites, the Followers of Set immediately saw the advantage of cultivating friendly relations with the new clan of “wizards.” The Tremere, for their part, realized that the Serpents’ Egyptian origins gave them access to some of the hoary secrets of the Pharaohs. Thus, the Tremere welcomed the attentions of the Setites and quickly formed an alliance with them.

Only later, as they observed the mistrust and suspi- cion which other clans harbored toward the Followers of Set, did the Tremere question the wisdom of their overt and open cooperation with the Serpents. Bowing to dis- cretion, the Usurpers have since cooled in their public attitude toward the Setites, while privately continuing to cultivate their favor in the interests of knowledge. GANGREL

The Tremere view the Gangrel as little more than bestial creatures, devoid of any trappings of civilization. In fact, some Tremere do not even consider the Animals to be a separate clan, believing them imperfect and degenerate Cainites unworthy of official recognition. As such, they feel no compunction in using Gangrel in their unholy experiments, such as the ones Goratrix used to create his Gargoyle servitors. The Gangrel, for their part, hate the Tremere with a single-minded, animalistic passion - and with good reason.

The Magisters’ political subtlety impresses the Tremere. Their own experience in the fractious society of warring wizard houses has alerted the Usurpers to the importance of treating with other Cainites from a position of power, and the Lasombra provide the Tremere with an abundance of good examples of how to do so. The Usurpers recognize that their own survival relies on achieving recognition and approval from the most important clans - of which the Magisters rank among the leading contenders. Whenever possible, Usurpers seek to ally themselves with powerful Lasombra, while at the same time exercising wary caution when dealing with these “shadowy” Cainites. MALK AVIANS

By discounting the Madmen, the Tremere have opened themselves up to their unwelcome attentions. Many Tremere believe that the children of Malkav are either possessed by infernal spirits or else have become maddened by the Embrace. Secretly, the Tremere fear Malkavians, since the lunatics’ often discomfiting ravings defy the Usurpers’ concepts of reason and propriety. A few Tremere, however, realize that these mad Cainites possess uncanny insights. These rare and forward-thinking Usurpers advo- cate studying the Madmen in order to test their potential as oracles and seers. NOSFERATU

To the Tremere, the Nosferatu represent the most horrific and foul aspects of Cainite existence. While they have recently learned of the Lepers’ status as masters of acquiring information and collecting rumors, the Usurp- ers’ instinctive dislike of the Nosferatu makes it almost impossible for them to treat with the Lepers as anything approaching equals. Indeed, Goratrix’ experiments upon captured Nosferatu have made enemies of most members of that clan. WAVNOS

The Tremere regard the Charlatans as little more than fakes, holding them in the same contempt as they hold beggars, serfs and traveling buskers. The Ravnos’ chica- nery and “false” magics are viewed as merely the hallmarks of a tribe of thieves and mendicants. Unfortunately, the Tremere’s disdain leaves them open to the most malicious tricks the Ravnos can devise. TOREADOR

The Tremere hold the Toreador in high regard, not only for their grasp of culture and history, but also for their political influence in the Church and in many parts of Europe. However, the Usurpers temper their admiration for the ease with which the Artisans maneuver in both Cainite and mortal society with a faint disdain for the

Tremere have yet to realize just how much power the Toreador have in formulating Cainite opinion. TZIMISCE

The Tremere’s relationship with their “parent” clan is complex. Although a state of outright hostility exists between the two clans, as the Tzimisce attempt to drive them from their ancestral lands and eventually obliterate them, the Tremere find their own hatred of the Fiends tempered by the knowledge of their common blood. Until Tremere’s act of Amaranth upon Saulot confirmed him as an Antediluvian and gave his followers the status of a clan, the Tremere were considered by many Cainites as little more than an offshoot of the Tzimisce. Although most Tremere would hotly deny such an allegation, they do, in private, acknowledge that without the blood of the Tzimisce, they would not now exist in their current vampiric state. Of course, they hasten to point out, Zeus owed his existence to Cronos, and that the Tremere view their relationship to the Tzimisce as similar.

Above all, the Tremere both hate and fear the Tzimisce. The Fiends’ mystical compact with the soil of their home- land and, some say, with the dark, Infernal deity whose essence permeates the Transylvanian vastness, haunts the Usurpers. This, if anything, only increases the Tremere’s desire to establish themselves outside of the lands around Ceoris and the Carpathians.

Encounters between Tremere and Tzimisce usually do not last long enough for verbal exchanges. Instead, they are brief and bloody clashes that end in the Final Death of at least one of the participants.

Whenever the Tremere are fortunate enough to sub- due and capture one of the Fiends, the unfortunate Cainite becomes the subject of further experimentation. The fate of a Usurper taken by one of the voivodes is, if anything, ) worse.

VENTRUE

Although the Tremere acknowledge the Ventrue as 1 the makes the tions. learn their favor current power. from In them the of them the leaders For meantime, the Patricians their ultimate how of part, best Western the whenever targets the to Tremere go Ventrue Cainite about of possible, the attempt admire relieving society, Usurpers’ the to the cultivate better this them Usurp- ambi- just

to of

ers’ successful bid for Cainite recognition even while 1 condemning between The the Tremere Ventrue their are methods and aware the of Brujah, of achieving the antipathy although “legitimacy.”

they that do exists not quite understand why Carthage occupies such an impor- tant place in the rivalry between the clans. Nevertheless, the Usurpers attempt to make use of the Ventrue-Brujah

I

conflict to better their own position with regard to both

clans, playing them off against each other whenever pos- sible. In areas where a Ventrue is prince (i.e., in much of Europe), the Tremere seek to establish clandestine alli- ances with the Brujah while paying lip service to the Patrician ruler. In those regions under Brujah control, they secretly attempt to curry favor with the Patricians in hopes of “civilizing” the area. The Tremere are only partially successful in these endeavors, however, for they have not yet learned the extremes of subtlety and intrigue that their potential dupes have had millennia to practice.

In Eastern Europe, the Tremere often find themselves allied with the Ventrue against the Tzimisce. Although the Usurpers dislike incurring obligations of loyalty to the so-called Eastern Lords, they recognize the pragmatic ad- vantages in cooperation with the Patricians against a common and terrible enemy. OTHER CAINITES BAALI

Although most Tremere reject outright Infernalism (a holdover from their training as magi), a few Usurpers grudgingly admire the power wielded by these possessed Cainites. Some Tremere fall prey to the Baali’s lures and succumb to their schemes without realizing, until too late, that they have done so. The Trernere destroy those among them who show any overt evidence of traffic with the Baali, but are sometimes slow to destroy the Baali them- selves. After all, who knows what secrets the Infernalists might be tempted to reveal if spared .... SALUBRI

The children of Saulot are an affront to the Tremere by their very existence. The Usurpers actively hunt the remnants of the slain Antediluvian, fearing that the Salubri will succeed in rallying other Cainites against them. At least one subsect of the clan, famous for its ability as warriors rather than healers, has sworn vengeance upon the Tremere for the diablerie of its founder. Thus the Tremere seek to destroy all remaining Salubri in order to protect themselves, wrapping their mission of extermina- tion in a cloak of rumors of Salubri depravity. MAGI AND

Although their Cainite natures preclude the practice of True Magick, many members of Clan Tremere find it difficult to separate themselves from their connections with mages. At present, mortal magi still exist within Tremere chantries, still oblivious to the undead creatures who walk among them. Nevertheless, Trernere typically treat mages with extreme caution, their respect born from their own knowledge of the powers these individuals com- mand.

HOUSE TYTALUS

This group of mages does not seem to share the same aversion to the existence of vampires as other mages. The vampiric Tremere hope that, in the event that the other mages discover their identity as Cainites, the mages of House Tytalus, at least, will not entirely abandon them. WEWEWOLWS

The Tremere have incurred the wrath of the Transylvanian werewolves (mostly Shadow Lords), who consider them intruders on their domain. In addition, many Tremere seek to hunt and trap werewolves in order to use them for experimental purposes and to take advan- tage of their potent vitae in alchemical research. As they expand across Europe, the Tremere encounter other tribes of werewolves, which they also swiftly antagonize by vir- tue of their incorrigible tendency to experiment on the Lupines they capture. To the Tremere, the Lupines are animals and resources, nothing more - an attitude the werewolves OTHER find SUPERNATURALS

less than appealing.

The Tremere know of the existence of wraiths, faeries and mummies. They both respect these other supernatural creatures and desire to learn as many of their secrets as

possible. As usual, the Usurpers are not above attempts to use their thaumaturgical powers to gain control over other supernaturals whenever possible.

Those Tremere who engage in traffic with the dead do so in order to discover the truth about the afterlife or to attempt to learn as much as they can about the nature of the Under- world, but to date have been frustrated by the seemingly contradictory information they have garnered. Even erst- while informants have been known alter their personae and tales in the blink of an eye, making it extremely difficult to sift wheat from chaff. More than one Tremere has written off the entire Empire of the Dead as a pack of liars, and has begun researching ways to try to extirpate the troublesome ghosts. A few Tremere have attempted to capture faeries in order to use their blood in their magical experiments; the unforeseen effects of fae blood, however, make this prac- tice risky at best. Those Usurpers who were magi before becoming vampires are aware of the dangers inherent in arousing the anger of the Fair Folk.

Some Tremere actively look for evidence of the Pharonaic immortals, hoping to discover from these true immortals how to reverse their own undead state. Most Tremere, however, realize the folly of attempting to wrest the secret of eternal life from these creatures by force and merely study them from afar.

BOOKTWOTREMERE

I I

Quote: You need not thank me fur my assistance. No one else has ever done so. Prelude: Your mistress bought you from your parents at the Royal Market in Buda-Pest. You were seven and only a girl, but the cloaked woman paid for you in silver and took you away with her to a huge castle high in the mountains. You traveled by night to reach your new home and, once there, you saw nothing of the

For seven years, you labored for your mistress, cleaning her workroom- her laboratory, she called it. You learned to read and write Latin and Greek. Then your real work began. Your mistress taught you about magic. You studied until alchemical formulas, astrological conjunctions and all man- ner of mystic theories came unbidden to your mind. Still, she forbade you to learn any conjurations or spells.

& When you asked your

refused to answer

away in shame and never spoke of it again.

Then the others t men and women with pale

you could, but felt that nothing you

said satisfied them. The following evening, your mistress ordered you to bathe and gave you a crimson robe to wear. She asked you if you would learn the secret of immortality. "Will I be- come a magus like you?" you asked. "You will become like me," she replied. That night, deep within the cel- lars of the castle, your mistress drained . youofyourblood. Inadreamy,trance- like state, you watched as your

life-force seeped into your blood-red robe. Too late, as your mistress' fiery vitae burned your lips and charred your soul, you realized what kind of immortality you had received. You would never become a magus, for you had become one of the Tremere. Concept: Throughout your long apprenticeship, no one ever praised you. Even when you s u d d , you believed that you had failed. Intellectually, you know that the harshness of your training helped prepare you for your existence as a Cainite; tenderness and affection do not suit the demands of your unlife.

Roleplaying Hints Despite your competence in many areas of knowledge, despite your success in learning the beginnings of Thaumaturgy,youcannotshakethecertaintythatyoufailtomeasure up to the expectations of your sire. Apply yourself to whatever task is assigned to you with determination and resolve. You have learned to motivate yourself, since no one else seems to encoufage you.

Equipment: Crimson robe and cloak with cowl, scrolls and treatises in Latin and Greek, alchemical tools, astro- logical compendium

GENEHHTHIN: 9th NHTCIHU LONER

lllIlX - AWANTAGES DlsClPUREs QtMMmxe e\* 0 0 0 m e 0 0 0 0 0 000000 000000 000000 - --OTHER THRiTs=

000000 000000 000000 000000 000000

R\~.,\~,\~ R\~)\~- -EXPERIENCE= 0000000000 0000000000

Quote: No knowledge is too dark, no secrets too dangerous. Let me show you my latest discowery , but hurry, before my subject expires\!

Prelude: Your family sent you to Paris for an education, but nothing in the libraries of the university satisfied your thirst for the kind of knowledge you desired. Then you heard whispered rumors of a secret cache of scrolls beneath the library. The other students claimed that those who read these forbidden writings lost their souls, damned by the teachings contained therein.

You had to see these damning documents for yourself. That very evening, you secreted yourself within the library until it closed and the last musty scholar left for the safety of his home. Groping your way through dark passages, candle in hand, you found the stairway that led to a small room below the streets of the city.

Suddenly, a voice muttered in the darkness and a gentle light illuminated the room. That night, you discovered both the knowledge you sought and the man who would teach you even more. You led a strange and exhilarating double life - studying the works of the Church fathers by day and delving into the li- brary of the Damned by night. You don’t remember sleeping, or even needing to sleep. The ancient scholar who supervised your clandestine education soon introduced you to even more bizarre and satisfying practices. You studied the workings of \\ the human body by experi- menting on living subjects in his laboratory, also below ground. You soon learned to ignore the plaintive screams 1

of your victims. The quest for knowledge justified every- thing. One evening, your mentor pronounced you ready for the next phase of your study. He told you to pack your things and pre- pare for a journey into Hell. He laughed as he spoke, but somehow, you be- lieved him.

A week later. vou had satisfied the head of the chantrv in Paris that you were a suitable candidate for eternal unlife. The following night, yoursire initiated you intoClanTremere. You sometimes ponder what ultimately led you on the path to your damnation - the books, your tutor or yourself. Then you consider your newest experiment and realize that, in the end, it does not matter.

Concept: The lure of forbidden knowledge compels you to push your mind into stranger and stranger places. Your laboratories of vivisection provide you with an endless source of entertainment, as well as increasing your comprehension of the mysteries of the universe. Unlife has freed you from the cares of your soul and the petty laws of king and Church. Only the clan has any hold over you, and their dominion has liberated you from the rule of others.

Roleplaying Hints: You are first and foremost a seeker of knowledge - of anything and everything. The forbidden exercises an almost irresistible pull on you and you follow your urges to their ultimate conclusion. You do not fear damnation; that comes, if it comes at all, after death- and your existence stretches before you in a potentially endless continuum of discovery.

Equipment: Scholar’s clothes, laboratory, tools for your experiments, expendable victims

NHME Pwvm: DEMEHUIIH: NUTUR\~. FANATIC CELEBRANT CHHONFLE P -ATTRIBUTES- PHYYCHL Strecnshpeeoooo k x t m r y \~ e e a o o CWN: TREMERE Charirma-.eeooo SIXIAL Manipulation-. o o o o o GENEHRTION: HHVEN:

CONCEPT: lz6YD mh MENTHL Pcrccpuon-..aooo lntelllgcncepe e e eo Sramma-e.oooo Appardnce\~eeoooo W \! n \~ e . o o o o -\~BILITIES- A c t THLENTS i n e o o o 0 o o Animal Ken-o SKIUS ooo 00 KNOWUD\~ES Academicspe e. o oo A l c r m e s e e o o o o Athletics-oooooo Brawl-oooooo Crafts-oooooo Archery-oooooo Eriqucrrc-eooooo L M g c \~ a o o o o o Hcrbalsme.oooo Empathy-aooooo Melee-oooooo Hearth lnvesfwfmn-oooooo W\~dom\~oooooo L Lmeuuita-e.oooo Mdicmnepea..oo a w \~ o o o o o o c

. .\_ . .. . . . .- I THPIM471RI;Y.ooooo DOMlNATEe.. DIWPIJNES 000 MENTORe.00 CONTACTSaooo RKK\~\~H\~UNDS 1111 Y I , , \~ “ K l u n ) O O o o PlVSPEX\~00000 H E R D . 0 0 0 Sctf;eonrmVlnsrlncr\~\~\*\*\* ---ROn”= II 000000 \~ 000000 D 0 0 O 0 0 0 0 CoUraS\~..\*O = 0

\-WI I

Roleplaying Hints: Sometimes, as you sleep during the day, you still hear the

Quote: You needn’t bother asking me to spare your pitiful unlife . But you needn’t fear, either, I, unlike you, deliver death swiftly and relatively painlessly.

Prelude: Your family committed the unpardonable crime of offending the uoioode. For that, they died. You survived only because you hid until dawn. Then you fled

screams of your parents and sisters, but with each Tzimisce head you take, the cries grow fainter. You prefer killing the voivodes, but you also have Lupines and the oc- casional Gangrel and Nosferatu to you into the forests, preferring to die from the fangs and claws

credit. Eventually, y of savage beasts than at the merciless hands of your over-

will travel to France or lord. England; the Tremere

The wolves found you after dark. You fled through the

have enemies every- pitch-black forest, fear quickening your steps and height-

where, and it is ening your awareness. Cornered, you turned to face your

your job to deal death, seeing nothing but glowing red eyes and hearing

with them. only the anticipatory snarls of the enormous, slavering

Equipment: beasts. Your carving knife seemed such a puny weapon, but

Traveling clothes, good it was all you had. You held it out in front of you and waited

sword, sharpened stakes 1 for the end.

Suddenly, a bolt of lightning struck the ground in front of you, charring one of the wolves. The others fled in howling terror. A tall, muscular man stepped out from behind a tree and clapped an icyecold hand on your shoulder. He told you that you were safe, and you believed him. Your rescuer brought you to Ceoris, where you related to him the tale of your family’s agonizing death. He listened gravely and then asked you if you wanted revenge. You nodded eagerly. “Then you will have the opportunity, in time,” he told you.

You lived with the apprentices, but you studied the art of killing rather than the mysteries of alchemy and sorcery. You rarely saw your savior, for he spent most of his time away from Ceoris, searching for ancient stores of knowl- edge and lost treasures of the past. You had other teachers. You received the Embrace because it was necessary. “The Tremere have many enemies,” you were told. “Most of them are immortal. To bring death to the undying, you, too, must join their ranks.”

Twelve years after the voivode slaughtered your fam- ily, you tracked him to his haven. Your Thaumaturgy gained you admittance into his stronghold, but your sword removed his head. His death was the beginning of your quest for vengeance.

Concept: Unlike most Tremere, you are a trained killer - an assassin for your clan. Originally, you sought only to avenge your mortal family’s death. Now, you take a professional pride in eliminating Cainites and any others who threaten your new family.

Tim Drwc Rem NUME: NUTCIW.: FANATIC GENERATION: 1Mh PLAYER: D€MERNOH. DEFENDER HIWEN: CHHONICLE: -ATTRIBUTES- S t r Stamma-• -ABIL\~PIES- Drxtenry-a PHYsl\<nL c n g t L a a a a o o o o 0 0 o o CLUN: TREMERE CONCEPT: SILENT SLAYER sx l,?l C Manipulation-• h r r m a r Appearance-a a o o o 0 o o o o 0 o o o

Pcrcc\~rmn-o lnrelligsncc-• MENTAL a o o o o o o o Win a a o o o TRLENTS Acm-oooooo An\~malKcn-oooooo SKIUS KNOWLEIX\~ES Academic.-aooooo Alcnnerr-aaaooo Arhlcrtcs-a Bmwl-\~ooooo Dodge\_\_.ooaoo a o 0 0 0 Archcry-aoaooo Hcdnh Wmdom-000000

Crafu E Herbalism-oooooo u s u e \~ o o t o o e o o

\~ o LA” Inveatikartan-o Lmn\~\~mcr\_\_.ooooo \~ o \~ \~ \~ oooooo o o o E Inrimidatio-oooooo Lanen\~-oooooo m p a t h y o o o o o o Mclee Music Ride oooooo oooooo a a o o Occult Medtcmc-o Poliricr oooooo oooooo o o o o o Lcadmhip-o S u b \~ \~ 0 0 0 0 0 \~ o O O o Stealth Survwal-o\~oooo o o a 0 a 0 o o

Science-o Scnerhal-oooooo

0 o o o o

Quote: In return for ceding these minor holdings to my clan for the purpose of establishing a chantry, my lord, you have the assurance of Tremere support in your claim to the recently vacated princedom. We ask no other favors from you save your good will and your gratitude.

Prelude: Some call your work diplomacy; others refer to it as lying. Regardless of the details, you are an expert at the art of subtle negotiation and arbitration. You enjoy the interplay of give and take necessary to bring opposing interests into a mutually agreed upon accord. Others achieve victory with the sword; your weapons are your mind and your carefully consid- ered words.

You learned your skills from your father, who was a renowned mediator in the Holy Roman Empire. Like him, you saw the advantages of seeking to prevent the ravages of war by establishing cordial relations among the petty nobles of East- ern Europe. When you felt ready to strike out on your own, you traveled to France, where you offered your services to the local nobility.

Your successes in France brought you to the attention of the Church, and so- although you remained a layman- you traveled throughout Europe as a papal emissary. Finally, you negotiated a delicate c\\y . agreement between the Pope and a local noble. The Baron de Granville congratulated you on your expertise and y\\\<\\( 1 hosted a feast in your honor, claiming he I wanted you to meet some of his friends.

Those friends proved to be an unusual group of learned men and women, who ques- tioned you as you supped at your host's table al- though they ate nothing themselves. You answered them as honestly as you could, explaining to them something of your methods of achieving agreements be- Y tween supposedly intractable parties. They asked you if you planned to work for the Church's in- terests indefinitely; you

replied that you would continue to represent the Pope until someone made you a better offer.

That offer came within the fortnight. Although you found it hard to believe your new patrons' promise of eternal existence, you found their insistence difficult to refuse. Now that you have received the Embrace and belong, unbeating heart and damned soul, to Clan Tremere, you realize that Cainite powers influenced your decision. Now you wield those same powers to sway the thoughts of others. You have no regrets.

Concept: The Tremere selected you for your diplomatic and political acumen. You exist to smooth the way for your clan's expansion and to gain entry intocainite society for the Usurpers. The risks are greater than any you have ever taken before, but the satisfaction you receive from successfully gaining the advantage for your clan exceeds your previous dealing with mere mortals.

Roleplaying Hints: Always choose your words carefully - not just when you engage in serious discussions with the agents of the local Ventrue or Toreador prince. Even casual conversation serves your - and your clan's - interests. Study everyone you meet to ascertain how best to win their support.

Equipment: Traveling clothes, court finery, letters of introduction

Of Historical Note: The Sleeper of Ceoris

THEY SAY OUR FOUNDER SLEEPS WITHIN THE HEART OF THIS FORTRESS, AND THAT, FROM THE DEPTHS OF HIS SLUMBER, HIS SPIRIT TAKES NOTE OF ALL THAT TRANSPIRES ABOVE HIM ETRIUS IN PARTICULAR CLAIMS TO FEEL TREMERE'S PRESENCE, BUT HIS EXPRESSION SHOWS THAT HE TAKES

LITTLE JOY TO HIS WORDS

\[TOO, HAVE FELT SOMETHING - OR SOMEONE - STIRRING RESTLESSLY IN THE DEEPEST PART OF THE NIGHT. THE WALLS CREAK AS IF AN UNSEEN FORCE PRESSES AGAINST THEM, AND THE VERY AIR WITHIN THE CAVERNOUS HALLS GROANS WITH THE PASSING OF SOME MOMENTOUS BEING IT IS NOT A PLEASANT SENSATION, I FEAR, SOMETIMES, THAT THIS IMPREGNABLE FORTRESS SHOULD COLLAPSE FROM THE WEIGHT OF THE TERROR THAT PERMEATES ITS STONE FOUNDATIONS

WHILE THE OTHERS PRACTICE THEIR SECRET ENDEAVORS IN THEIR LABORATORIES OR PLOT THE DEMISE OF THE LATEST OUTSIDE THREAT TO OUR BELEAGUERED CLAN, I REMAIN WITHIN THE SANCTUARY OF THIS LIBRARY, ENSCONCED AMONG THE DUSTY PARCHMENTS AND SCROLLS AND FORGOTTENBY MOST OF MY FELLOWS HERE, INSOLITUDE, IPORE THROUGH THE ACCOUNTS OF THAT FATEFUL NIGHT WHEN TREMERE TOOK SALILOT'S ESSENCE TO FORTIFY HIS OWN VITAE AND

ESTABLISH OUR BLOODLINE AS A CLAN

THOSE WHO WITNESSED THE EVENT HAVE LITTLE TO SAY ABOUT WHAT ACTUALLY TRAN- SPIRED, IT IS AS IF SOME GREAT CONSPIRACY OF SILENCE FELL LIPON THEM THEY REPORT ONLY THAT TREMERE FOUND THE ANTEDILUVIAN, THAT HE SUCCEEDED IN SUBDUNG SAULOT'S TORPID FORM (HOW COULD HE NOT\! AND THAT HE EMERGED TRIUMPHANT WITH THE POWER OF THE THIRD GENERATION COURSING THROUGH HIS VENS

I SAW OUR FOUNDER ONCE, JUST AFTER HIS RETURN FROM SAULOT'S HAVEN HIS BODY RADIATED A PALPABLE AURA OF MAGNIFICENCE AND GRANDEUR, BUT SOMEHOW, HIS EYES SEEMED

GUARDED, AS IF HIS ACTION HAD SPARKED AN INNER WAR

ISTOOD AMONG THOSE WHO WAITED TO WELCOME HIM BACK, I DOUBT HE EVEN NOTICED ME, FOR I WAS STILL OF INSUFFICIENT STANDING TO MERIT HIS ATTENTION HE GAZED UPON US ALL,

APPEARING BOTH EXULTANT AND WEARY.

"IT IS DONE," HE PROCLAIMED IN A VOKE THAT BARELY ROSE ABOVE A WHISPER YET ECHOED THROUGHOUT THE MEETING CHAMBER "WE ARE A CLAN BY BLOOD AND BY DESTINY." THAT WAS ALL HE SAID, OR ALL I CAN REMEMBER THE REPORTS WRITTEN BY OTHERS VARY LITTLE FROM THAT TEXT. PERHAPS IT IS WHAT HE WISHES US TO REMEMBER.

SHORTLY THEREAFTER, HE CALLED ETRIUS, GORATRIX, MERLINDA AND HIS OTHER CLOSEST ADVISORS INTO HIS PRESENCE WE HEARD LATER THAT TREMERE HAD VOLUNTARILY ENTERED TORPOR, FOR THE REPOSE OF HIS SOUL AND FOR THE GOOD OF THE CLAN I HAVE NOT SEEN HIM SINCE Now, SOME 60 YEARS LATER, I SEEK TO UNDERSTAND THE TRUE IMPORT OF TREMERE'S SACRIFICE

SACRIFICE, BECAUSE I HAVE CAUSE TO WONDER JUST WHO SUFFERED MORE AT SAULOT'S DEATH MOREOVER, I QUESTION WHETHER THE PRICE WE PAID - OR RATHER, THE PRICE TREMERE PAID - TO ACQUIRE THE NECESSARY CREDENTIALS FOR OUR CLAN'S LEGITIMACY WAS NOT TOO HIGH

YES, I SAY TREMERE'S AND NOT SALILOT'S

THE COUNCIL OF SEVEN GUIDES US, AND THEY DO THEIR BEST TO ADMINISTER JUSTLY THE AFFAIRS OF CLAN TREMERE STILL, WE ARE BEREFT OF TREMERE'S DIRECTION IT IS AS IF HE HAS CUT US LOOSE TO FEND FOR OURSELVES IN A DARK AND HOSTILE REALM, WITH ONLY OCCASIONAL TUGS AT THE MINDS OF ETRIUS AND THE OTHERS TO GUIDE US THROUGH THIS MURKY QUAGMIRE OF CAINITE EXISTENCE IT IS NOT ENOUGH

AND THEN, THERE ARE THE DREAMS

LIBELLUS SANGUINIS 2

76

unuoiced ikaiitzi cfan andbr \&e respect iooperz\&us/\&me S d e a r j \~ you r to reiazh andyour it any wor4 hnyer. keep Fhase,jr/Ae ii sab reywdhss sake ofyour of our

iAou-Ais as io iAe ueraciq of i;/s contents.

Zffgcan say toyou is iAis:

too, kauenzykimwes suchas 6omokoJAas Ascriked

\[arbom iAisp face o fyromny unease; my iAouykts yrocu LyAter aAen YiAinkiAaiyou, ai /easi, are sab born tkai uAicL’ ikreaiens us ziz mays euen .Y Eannoi 6eyzh io

aritten \&is 12 n+l of Octo \&r, in iAe year I iga, dy my omn Amd,

\~ -\*

Blook Three:

Zealots

"Benoit\! Is that you?" I shouted into the Andalusian night Our reconnaissance had led to a skirmish and the ringing of blade upon blade still echoed in the shadovos of the low valley around us Garbed as aknight of the Reconquista, the enemy of my allies my childe stepped over the dying body of young Khalid and rushed to greet me.

"What strange fortune, sire\! It is 10 years at least since I departed Troyes" His laugh ing face was of course, unchanged upon its surface, but the fire of war burned in his enes, as ominous as the blood that stained his surcoat welcomed his embrace as much as I had when woe last parted ways, but I sensed his unease.

"Ten years exactly, Benoit time enough for you to earn the right to call me by name, certainly. But what of this uniform you voear? Please tell me you have not cast your lot with the Reconquista\!" I snorted in obvious disbelief

79

<http://www.white-wolf.com>   