CONTENTS

1

TM

BY KRAIG BLACKWELDER AND STEVE KENSON
VAMPIRE CREATED BY MARK REIN•HAGEN

2
CREDITS

Authors: Kraig Blackwelder and Steve Kenson. Vampire

and the World of Darkness created by Mark Rein•Hagen.
Storyteller Game System Design: Mark Rein•Hagen.
Developer: Lucien Soulban
Editor: Michelle Lyons
Art Director: Brian Glass
Layout and Typesetting: Brian Glass & Mike Chaney
Interior Art: Becky Cloonan, Steve Ellis, Jeff Waye, Jenni-
fer Quick, Kalman Andrasofszky, Leanne Buckley, Matt Foster

Front Cover Art: Michael Gaydos
Front and Back Cover Design: Mike Chaney

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT
“YEAR-LONG ROAD TRIP” SPECIAL THANKS
Daniel “Oh my God that sucked” Barclay , for watching
double features of dubious merit, always sharing a laugh and
knowing who was better at DOA3.

Matt “You’re... choking... me!” Keeley, for getting jumped

by everyone he knows... in restaurants, stores, bars....

Jesse “Watch the damn tape already!” Scoble, for being a

saving grace at work and liquoring me up good.

Devinder “Yeah, but is it art?” Thiara , for turning debate
into both a fine art and a blunt instrument for bludgeoning.
The  Stronghold  Crowd:  Adam,  Dac,  Heather,  Penn,
Chris, Andy, Keith, Ross, Jessie & many more who made life in
Guelph... interesting.

1554 Litton Drive
Stone Moutain,
GA 30083
USA

©  2002  White  Wolf  Publishing,  Inc.  All  rights  reserved.
Reproduction without the written permission of the publisher is
expressly forbidden, except for the purposes of reviews, and for
blank character sheets, which may be reproduced for personal use
only. White Wolf, Vampire the Masquerade, Mage the Ascen-
sion, Vampire and World of Darkness are  registered trademarks
of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Kindred of
the East, Werewolf the Apocalypse, Changeling the Dreaming,
Kindred of the East Companion, Killing Streets, The Thousand
Hells, Dharma Book Bone Flowers, Dharma Book Devil Tigers,
Dharma  Book  Thousand  Whispers,  Dharma  Book  Thrashing
Dragons, Blood Magic Secrets of Thaumaturgy, Gilded Cage, Nights of Prophecy, World of Darkness Demon Hunter X, Loom
of Fate, Immortal Eyes, Mind’ s Eye Theatre, Laws of the East, San Francisco by Night and World of Darkness Hong Kong are
trademarks of White Wolf Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. All characters, names, places and text herein are copyrighted
by White Wolf Publishing, Inc.

The mention of or reference to any company or product in  these pages is not a challenge to the trademark or copyright concerned.
This book uses the supernatural for settings, characters and themes. All mystical and supernatural elements are fiction

and intended for entertainment purposes only. This book contains mature content. Reader discretion is advised.

For a free White Wolf catalog call 1-800-454-WOLF.
Check out White Wolf online at
http://www.white-wolf.com; alt.games.whitewolf and rec.games.frp.storyteller
PRINTED IN THE USA.

CONTENTS

3

TM

4
10
18
32
60
76
    118

CONTENTS

PROLOGUE: NIGHT MOVES
CHAPTER ONE: INTRODUCTION
CHAPTER TWO: INTERESTING TIMES
CHAPTER THREE: UTOPIA LOST
CHAPTER FOUR: SAN FRANCISCO NIGHTS
CHAPTER FIVE: HONORED SHEN
CHAPTER SIX: STORYTELLING SAN FRANCISCO

4

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

PROLOGUE: NIGHT MOVES

5

prologue:
Night Moves

All warfare is based on deception.
— Sun Tzu, The Art of War

“Check,” said the First Oni and Devil of Heaven
with a trace of a smile. “You haven’t many pieces left
in play, Minister.”

“Your queen can’t protect you forever, Van Nuys,”
he said. “ Sooner or later you will have to come out
from behind her skirts.”

Jochen  Van  Nuys,  Minister  of  the  West  and
former Prince of San Francisco, studied the board
for  a  moment.  It  was  true.  His  white  pieces  were
certainly  outnumbered  by  Chiu  Bao’s  black  ones,
with a growing number of captured white pieces on
his  opponent’s  side  of  the  board.  Chiu  Bao  had
certainly  picked  up  the  fundamentals  of  chess  far
more quickly than Van Nuys was able to master the
subtleties of mahjong or go . The Cathayan mandarin
was a shrewd strategist, for all his appearance as a
simple country bumpkin.

“It’s not necessarily a matter of how many pieces
you have left, Mandarin, but how you deploy them.”
He shifted his queen on the board, deftly removing
his king from check and bringing a subtle smirk to
Chiu Bao’s face.

*

*

*

Sara Anne Winder was not pleased. The Camarilla
had charged the newly named Prince of San Francisco
with regaining the city from the Cathayan vampires
who’  d  taken  it,  but  so  far  all  she  possessed  were
speculations  and  theories  from  some  of  the  finest
minds in the Camarilla about the nature and identity
of  her  adversaries.  She  sighed  heavily  and  pushed
aside  the  titanium-shelled  laptop  and  the  endless
reports and theories it contained.

Her bodyguard, Miriam,  looked over from where
she stretched, one foot held high above her head in a
classic ballet arch. Her black leotard sang every graceful
curve  of  Miriam  Caravaggio’  s  lithe  form  like  a
serenade. She lowered her leg smoothly and assumed

6

another  position,  hands  cupped  demurely  at  her
stomach as she bent and flexed.

“More reports from the Tremere?” she asked idly,
without missing a beat of the practice that had become
so  intrinsic,  so  second  nature  to  her.  Sara  enjoyed
watching Miriam train. She was so graceful, and so
deadly. Winder knew full well that many mortals and
a goodly share of Kindred thought the two were lovers.
They spent much time together in the prince’s haven
in  the  heart  of  Frisco’s  Castro  district.  Winder  had
only  one  love,  however,  and  that  was    success.  Let
them think what they wanted.

“More idle theories and guesswork, if that’s what
you mean,” Winder replied with a note of disgust. “
Every fact that Luna Demain and her chantry uncover
about  these  Cathayans  spawns  a  hundred  more
questions.  They  think  they’  ve  confirmed  that  the
Cathayans do not make others of their kind through
the Embrace, but they have little inkling as to how
they actually do it. The report states that it might be
a special rite, or perhaps  simply killing the intended
target and breathing into her mouth. They could be
more fertile than we ever imagined, or they could be
the victims of circumstance.“

Winder stood and paced irritably. “I can’t fight a
war based on theories! I need facts, weapons we can
use  against  the  Cathayans.  And  until  we  ascertain
their breeding capacity, the source of their strength,
we cannot act… we mustn’t.”

“Why waste time letting the Tremere dissect and
study them?” Miriam asked, kicking one leg up to the
bar  and  leaning  forward  as  she  ran  her  hands  up
toward her toes. “ We know full well the Cathayans
meet Final Death just like any of us. A stake through
the heart and a severed neck is enough.”

Miriam smiled at the memory of her last fight with
them, snapping the necks of the Cathayan assassins
who tried to kill Winder. They had fought well, but
not well enough. They hadn’t expected such a demure-
looking woman to serve as prince’s bodyguard. It was
a good fight, almost fluid, like long ribbons sailing in
the  wind.  She  appreciated  their  grace  and  sense  of
motion. She was looking forward to more.

The prince shook her head, however, bringing a
lock of long blond hair across her face. She brushed
it  aside,  then  turned  her  attention  back  to  the
laptop. “Don’t be so sure,” she told Miriam. “ We
have  reports  of  some  Cathayans  completely
unaffected by stakes, stories about them breathing
fire and running up walls. We need to know more
about them. ‘Know your enemy as you know yourself
and you will always be victorious.’”

“What’s that from?” Miriam asked.
“Sun  Tzu’s  The  Art  of  War,”    Winder  replied,
tapping the copy of the book on her desk. “We need to
know  how  the  Cathayans  think  and  what  they’re

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

capable of before we can move against them. They’ ve
shown that they know far too much about us already.
It’s time we turned those tables and showed them we
are not to be trifled with.”

“Difficult to do that while we’re penned up here,”
Miriam noted, with a pirouette and swing of her arm
that swept the window nearby and what lay beyond its
heavy curtains. Winder bit back a harsh retort. H er
bodyguard was right. The Cathayans gave her a haven
in the Castro, San Francisco’s famous “gay district,” a
not-so-subtle snub. By Camarilla propriety, she should
have a manor on Nob Hill and free rein to  run her city
as she saw fit. Under the auspices of the Cathayans
and their “New Promise Mandarinate,” though, she
was little more than a prisoner. Still, even that could
be turned to her advantage.

“Allow  the  Cathayans  to  become  comfortable,”
she  said,  as  much  to  herself  as  to  Miriam.  “They’ll
decide we aren’ t a threat while we watch, learn, and
gather information about them. And when they least
suspect it, that’s when they’ll learn the lessons that
took the Anarchs and Sabbat centuries to understand.
We aren’t going anywhere.”
*
*

*

“The  queen’s  protection  and  power  are
considerable,” Van Nuys told his opponent, much as
a  tutor  would  lecture  a  schoolboy,  “but  it’s  the
cooperation  of  all  the  pieces,  working  together    —
their moves complimenting each other — that makes
for  strategy.  No  individual  piece  moves  without
benefiting the whole.”

Chiu  Bao  smiled.  His  people  had  grasped  this
lesson  millennia ago under the august teachings of
Kung Fu Tzu… Master Confucius.

Van Nuys slid his king to the side and safety while
he  prepared  to  sacrifice  other  pieces  to  keep  the
monarch  safe  just  a  little  while  longer.  Victory
demanded sacrifices; a good gambit was never actually
what it appeared to be.

*

*

*

The  Castro  was  libidinous,  with  social  freedom
unlike  any  Dan  Gemmel  had  known  before.  He
couldn’t help grinning when he walked into the club
and  scanned  the  room,  bathing  in  the  sea  of  guys,
considering  his  choice  in  a  banquet  of  denim  and
muscle-shirts. There wasn’t anything like this waiting
for him in Nebraska.

‘So  many  guys,  so  little  morals,’    he  thought
eagerly; his gaze rested on the man standing at the
bar.  ‘Damn!’  he  thought,  ‘I’ve  never  seen  him  in
here before.’

The guy looked hot, the type of heat that nearly
boiled the sweat off Dan’s skin. He was the college
frat-boy type; exactly the kind of cheesecake Dan
went for. His T-shirt was  stretched tight against a
beautifully cut chest and his jeans hung loose around

PROLOGUE: NIGHT MOVES

7

his  waist.  He  leaned  against  the  bar,  languidly
watching  the  dance  floor  and  completely  at  ease
with himself and his surroundings — like a cat who
had the walk of the house. He glanced over at Dan
and gave him a slow, almost shy, smile. A shiver of
electricity coursed through Dan’s body as their eyes
met.    Before  he  could  move,  though,  the  guy  had
looked away again.

Dan took a couple steps forward. He had to meet this
guy. He’ d only crossed a quarter of the distance between
them when a figure emerged from the tangle of sweaty
bodies on the dance floor and stepped up to the guy at the
bar. Dan’ s heart sank. The guy at the bar was cute, but
the Asian was gorgeous. He was Japanese and didn’t even
look old enough to be in the club. He was all in white,
from his tight spandex shirt to his equally snug jeans,
showing off every curve of his slim body. He looked like
an almond-eyed angel, but with an edge. “This kid isn’t
innocent,”  Dan thought. “If he’s bar-guy’s boyfriend, my
chances are….”

Bar-guy  whispered something to the Japanese kid
and  looked  over  at  Dan  again,  smiling.  Then  they
were both looking at him and grinning. ‘Oh my God,’

Dan thought, ‘this can’t be for real.’  Before he knew
it, he was composing a letter in his head… ‘Dear First
Hand, I thought this would never happen to me….”
The two guys walked over to Dan, who managed to
say “hi” without sounding too desperate. He accepted
gracefully when they offered to buy him a drink, relieved
not to have shown his Midwestern roots. The first guy’s
name was Tim and his friend was Saki. “Like the drink,”
the Japanese kid said with a smile that made Dan melt.
They  were  both  students  at  UC  Berkley,  the  same  as
Dan, but he was surprised he’ d never seen them around
campus. Then again, they didn’t have the same majors.
Apparently Saki was from Japan, studying environmental
sciences at Berkley, while Tim was a history major. They
were both amazing dancers.

After a few drinks, Dan was only too happy when
Saki announced he was bored and suggested they go
somewhere more private. They left the club laughing
and  talking,  heading  down  the  street  to  catch  the
Muni to the BART station.

When Tim pulled Dan into a dark alley between a
bistro and a closed-up tourist bookstore, he thought again.
“Is this for real?”  Then Tim sank fangs into his neck,

8

puncturing the jugular with a pop. Dan gasped in ecstasy,
shuddering in Tim’s iron grasp while blood trickled down
his  neck.  Tim  lowered  Dan  against  the  cool  wall  and
gently lapped at his neck before straightening up.

“I can see now why you wanted to meet here,” Saki

said, bending over Dan.

“I thought it would be wise if we saw to our needs
before  discussing  other  matters,  Sakurai-san,”  Tim
replied. “But we shouldn’t stay here too long.”  Saki
nodded and pressed his lips to Dan’s neck. Dan felt a
cold aching pleasure spread through his body again.
*

*

*

“It would be different,” Chiu Bao supposed aloud,
“if you had built stronger defenses for your side, rather
than leaving yourself open to attack. It is wise to see
to the defense of one’ s home before venturing forth to
war, is it not?”

“Absolutely,”  Van Nuys agreed; Chiu Bao moved
a rook closer to the attack, tightening his net. “But
sometimes  one  must  risk  sallying  forth  to  seize  an
opportunity before it slips away.”

Van  Nuys  smiled  tightly  while  studying  the
board. The First Oni was still pontificating about
the  goals  of  the  Harmonious  Menders  of  Broken
Fences. Happily, Van Nuys  understood more about
Kuei-jin  politics  than  anyone  else  believed.  The
Fence Menders were focused on strengthening the
Kuei-jin’s traditional power in Asia, fortifying their
position  exactly  like  Chui  Bao  said  …  only
circumstances had drawn them into the lamentable
task of holding foreign cities.

Now duty forced them to expend effort on creating
new courts in foreign lands rather than caring for the
business  of  home.  Van  Nuys  knew  that  this  chafed
strategists like Chiu Bao. What the Kuei-jin needed
was  a  capable  local  regent,  able  to  administer  their
holdings for them; someone who knew the city and
wasn’t interested in Asia’s affairs. It was only a matter
of time before they realized it.

All he needed to steer the game’s course was patience.

*

*

*

“Patience,” Lili Zhu said in a calm and soothing

tone, “is our ally in this matter.”

“On  the  contrary,”  replied  Song  Feng,  Devil
Tiger mandarin of the New Promise. “ Patience is a
deceptive ally at best. We cannot afford to wait out
the  Kin-jin.  We  must  neutralize  any  threat  they
pose to this city’s new order, and quickly. We may
have  caught  the  barbarians  off  guard  at  first,  but
that cannot last.”

“Are you saying you fear reprisals from the Kin-
jin?” Zhu replied, her tone frosty. It was no secret she
cared little for Song Feng or his methods. Although
she  had  once  heard  the  Howl  of  the  Devil  Tiger
herself, Zhu now followed the Song of the Shadow,
and preferred calm contemplation to the fiery action

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

of  the  Heavenly  Devils.  To  her,  Song  Feng’s
fascination  with  the  modern  world  —  money  and
electronic toys — made him seem childish.

“Only a fool would expect the Kin-jin to accept
this  city’s  loss  without  complaint,”  Song  Feng
replied. “They’ve already taken steps to pen us in
and slow our advance,  giving them time to plan a
counter-offensive.  We  must  take  action  before
they can.”

“We will,”  interjected Han Hui. The follower of
the  Way  of  the  Resplendent  Crane  had  remained
silent at the start of the exchange, but she now spoke
with authority. “We will act,” she repeated, “ but not
to attack the Kin-jin. There is nothing to be gained
in that exchange.” She ignored Song Feng’s attempted
protest and continued. “Our actions must strengthen
our ties with this city’ s Kin-jin; give them reason to
profess  their  loyalty  to  us.  If  we  take  them  for  our
own,  we  strengthen  our  position  and  weaken  our
enemy in equal measure. By giving the Kin-jin a part
of this domain, we make it that much more difficult
for them to dislodge us.”

“But at what cost?” Lili Zhu asked. “If we integrate
the  foreigners  too  quickly,  we  must  ignore  the
traditions of training hin . The August Courts are not
likely to look upon us with approval. We will integrate
more of the Kin-jin, but it must take time. Therefore,
patience is the key.”

“Fah! The August Courts will approve of nothing
less than success,”  Song Feng said with a dismissive
wave of his hand. “The truth is that they care little for
the means of success and we all know it. I agree; we
must strengthen our ties here before the new prince
can sever them.”

“We agree, then; we must give the Kin-jin hope
that  the  future  we  offer  is  better  than  what  their
Camarilla  offers  them,”  Han  Hui  said,  resting  her
elbows  on  the  table  and  clasping  her  hands  before
her. “If we divide their loyalty, the Kin-jin cannot
stand against us.”

*

*

*

Chiu Bao picked up the white queen and set his

own black rook in her place.

“ Your queen is lost to you, Van Nuys. I hope your
king does not grow lonely without her gentle embrace.
Do not worry though,” he said with the utmost gravity,
“I will ensure his misery does not last long.”

“You are most kind,” the minister replied with a

sober expression, “not to prolong my agony.”

*

*

*

The  hot  iron  pressed  into  his  flesh  and  Peter
Kwan  screamed.  Blistering  pain  ripped  the  sound
from  his  lungs  until  he  couldn’t  scream  any  more.
The  pain  drove  all  thoughts  from  his  mind    —
thoughts he knew he shouldn’t have — bad thoughts.
They  were  right  to  punish  him.  They  were  only

PROLOGUE: NIGHT MOVES

trying to help him understand.

“Pain  is  the  greatest  of  teachers,”    the  man
with  the  iron  said.  He  held  its  glowing  tip  just
inches from his own face, studying it, as if he could
divine the future in the sizzling droplets of Peter’s
blood. There was a distinct odor of burning flesh
and blood in the air.  “Pain doesn’t coddle us. It
forces us to learn, or suffer.” He smiled and looked
down  on  Peter,  bound  to  the  chair  with  tears  of
blood running down his face. “ What has it taught
you today, Mr. Kwan?”

“Mr. Kwan?”
The voice brought Peter Kwan back to the present,
far away from his “indoctrination.” He turned from
the window overlooking the glittering lights of San
Francisco. Fu Peng, the Minister of the East, stood  in
the shadows with a questioning look on his wizened
face. Peter hadn’t heard him approach. He sketched a
quick bow, which Fu Peng returned.

“Yes, minister?” he asked.
“The mandarins wish to see the Minister of the
West,” Fu Peng said. He rarely spoke of Van Nuys by
name,  preferring  his  formal  title.  His  dedication  to
formality was what made Fu Peng adept at his job.

“I’ll summon him,” Kwan replied, withdrawing
with another bow. He turned and walked away. He
wondered if Fu Peng knew what he’d been thinking
about — if anyone knew.  No, they didn’t. If they
had, they would have forced him to face the Eye of
Heaven,  staked  out  for  the  sun,  long  ago.  No  one
suspects, he thought, and that’s just as it should be.
*

*

*

Van Nuys shifted a pawn forward into a vacant
space  in  the  Devil  Tiger’s  first  rank.  As  Chiu  Bao
looked  up  from  the  board,  Van  Nuys  indicated  the
queen  he’d  just  lost  with  a  tip  of  his  head.  The

9

returned  queen  n  ow  threatened  Bao’s  black  king.
Hemmed in behind a protective wall, the king had no
room left to maneuver.

“Checkmate,” Van Nuys said quietly.
Before Chiu Bao could answer, a soft knock came

at the door.

“Enter,”  the Minister of the West said, and his
aide Peter Kwan stepped into the room with a respectful
bow in Eastern style to both men.

“Pardon my interruption,” he said, “but the Cloud

Mandarins wish to see you, Minister.”

“Of course,” Van Nuys said, rising from his chair
and straightening his tie a bit. “We were just finished
here. You will excuse me, General?”

“Of  course,”  the  First  Oni  replied,  “we  must
attend to our duties. I will be leaving for Hong Kong
shortly, but I hope we will have the opportunity to
play again soon.”

“I  look  forward  to  it,”  Van  Nuys  replied.
“Remember,  General,  beware  of  the  power  of  an
ambitious pawn.” He turned while Kwan held open
the door.

The  Heavenly  Devil,  First  Oni  of  the
Extraordinary  Commission,  picked  up  the  white
queen from the board in front of him, dead fingers
caressing the cool ivory. He glanced at the minister’
s  retreating  back.  As  he  did  so,  his  gaze  fell  for  a
moment on Van Nuys’ aide, who looked back briefly
before  bowing  and  withdrawing.  In  that  moment,
Chiu  Bao  saw  a  trace  of  …  what?  Fear?  Anger?
Ambition?  Then the two men were gone.

He studied the chess piece again, thinking of Van

Nuys’ parting words.

“Good  advice,  Minister.  You  would  do  well  to

heed it yourself.”

10

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

CHAPTER ONE: INTRODUCTION

11

Chapter One:
Introduction

Don’t everybody like the smell of gasoline?
Well burn motherfucker, burn American dreams….
— Gasoline by Outkast, “Stankonia”

San  Francisco:  the  City  by  the  Bay,  city  of  the
Golden  Gate.  It  has  a  reputation  as  a  free-wheeling
place that manages to hold onto  some of the hippie-
style peace, love and acceptance of the 1960s. It’s a city
on the edge of modern trends in fashion, culture and
technology, home to the up-and-coming as well as the
down-and-out — haven to alternative lifestyles of all
kinds. It’s also a city struggling with the effects of its
own success; increased wealth and soaring real-estate
prices  force  many  of  San  Francisco’  s  traditional
inhabitants further toward its outskirts, filling the void
with dot.com professionals and Internet millionaires.
In the World of Darkness, San Francisco rots from
the inside out; success replaces ideals, style wins over
substance. It’s a city of conflict, where Asian vampires
create a new kind of political state among the undead,
leaving  Western  Kindred  with  the  choice  of  either
joining them or becoming exiles in their own home. It’s
a place where conflict could explode at any moment:
where  the  future  of  all  vampires,  both  Eastern  and
Western, hangs in the balance. San Francisco is a dark
and dangerous place, but it is also rife with opportunities
for the cunning and ambitious. Do you dare to walk its
fog-wrapped streets in the Final Nights?

OVERVIEW

San  Francisco  by  Night  is  a  sourcebook  for
Kindred of the East, but it’s also useful for players
and  Storytellers  of  Vampire:  The  Masquerade.  It
describes  the  city  of  San  Francisco  after  the
Quincunx’  s  Kuei-jin  seized  power,  ousting  the
Kindred  Prince  and  his  primogen  and  creating  a
domain  they  call  the  New  Promise  Mandarinate.
The book describes the current state of San Francisco
and the forces arrayed on both sides of the Kindred/
Kuei-jin conflict. It sets the stage for pivotal events
in the biggest West Coast power play ever.

THEME

The  occupied  city  of  San  Francisco  by  Night
touches  on  several  themes  in   Kindred  of  the  East,
particularly  involving  contact  between  the  Kuei-jin
and their Western counterparts. These themes underlie
this book’s material, and Storytellers can use them to
enhance stories set in and around San Francisco.

It’s  not  necessary  for  these  themes  to  appear  in
every  story,  or  for  them  to  be  especially  prominent.
They do, however, provide a sense of unity when used

12

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

subtly  and  consistently  in  the  background.  Consider
them  when  creating  stories  and  characters  for  a  San
Francisco chronicle.
COLONIALISM

The Middle Kingdom suffered under more than a
century of European colonialism, which forced alien
laws,  values  and  conditions  on  nations  and  cultures
thousands of years old. Although many of Asia’s nations
have reasserted  their own cultural identities, the legacy
born  of  European  influence  and  rule  remain  like  a
bitter aftertaste. Now the Kuei-jin of the August Courts
have  turned    the  tables  on  the  West,  invading  and
occupying two of their cities and imposing their own
rules and requirements.

Most  Kuei-jin  see  this  as  justice  of  a  sort  —  an
opportunity to take the battle to the unrighteous Kin-
jin.  There  are  those  Kuei-jin,  however,  who  see  the
Quincunx  becoming  exactly  what  it  claims  to  fight
against. They question the wisdom of a crusade when
there’s still so much to be done closer to home. In fact,
many  within  the  Fence  Mender  faction  grow
disillusioned  with  how  their  leaders  have    become
entangled in foreign affairs, after proclaiming so loudly
that the Quincunx needed to deal with matters in the
Middle  Kingdom  first.  The  Kuei-jin  adopt  the
methodology  of  the  colonialists  and  seek  to  impose
their ways on the outsiders, so the cycle continues. Are
the modern invaders’ actions based on justice — or just
bitterness and vengeance?
CULTURE SHOCK

The notion that East meets West in San Francisco
brings about some profound culture shock for both the
generally  insular  Kuei-jin  and  Kindred.  Both  parties
see themselves as the center of everything; their own
culture and traditions are considered  “natural,” while
viewing the other as foreign, alien or even corrupt.

Now circumstances are forcing the two sides to co-
exist  in  close  proximity.  Night  after  night,  they  are
slowly learning more about each other. Some lessons
are  written  in  trust,  while  others  are  scripted  with
blood. Regardless, the experiences of the  vampires in
San Francisco makes it harder for them to view their
opposite  numbers  as  faceless  and  nameless  “foreign
devils.” The needs of the New Promise Mandarinate,
thanks  to  their  low  numbers  and  unfamiliarity  with
their surroundings,  make it more difficult still for the
Kuei-jin to openly treat the Kindred as corrupt beings
to be wiped out. They need Western vampires to act as
their  interpreters  and  guides,  and  they  need  their
cooperation to hold the city.

Like it or not (and most vampires do not) the two
cultures become more bound up in each other, while
both  sides  discover  they  may  have  more  in  common
than they anticipated. How do the Kindred within the
Mandarinate adapt to the demands of Kuei-jin culture?

CHAPTER ONE: INTRODUCTION

How  do  the  Quincunx  react  to  Western  culture
“corrupting”  the  Kuei-jin  in  San  Francisco?  Are  the
kànbujiàn  a potential bridge of understanding between
East and West? All of these are questions a chronicle
can try and answer.

Younger,  often  disaffected  vampires,  with  more
fluid, modern notions of identity (like an international
appreciation and curiosity and  an ability to adapt to
a dynamic, global community forever on the cusp of
constant change) explore  common ground between
Kuei-jin  and  Kindred.  They  reject  the  culture  and
traditions  of  their  elders,  striking  out  to  find  their
own  identity  and  meaning  in  a  world  that  seems
meaningless. As it has been for mortals for generations,
San  Francisco  fast  becomes  a  city  where  young,
rebellious vampires go to “find themselves”  and exist
on their own terms. That is, of course, provided they
dodge the rules of the New Promise Mandarinate and
not  entangle  themselves  in  the  political  conflicts
erupting between their elders.
FATALISM

There’s  a  certain  fatalism  in  many  Eastern
cultures; what is, is, and there’s nothing one can do
but accept the inevitable. Vampires in San Francisco
sense  monumental  events  on  the  horizon,  and  few
believe  they  bode  anything  other  than  disaster  for
the  city  and  its  inhabitants.  There’s  a  sense  of
powerlessness; the Kuei-jin and the Kindred, locked
into their macabre roles like unwilling actors headed
for inevitable collision, prepare for the final acts in
their shared drama.

Of course, there’ s nothing that says the characters
must  be  powerless.  Acting  in  the  face  of  such
overwhelming fatalism is also a possible theme; young
Kuei-jin struggle against the custom-addled mandates
of  their  elders;  Kindred    create  an  island  of  peace
despite the Camarilla’s edict to push out the invaders;
vampires  of both hemispheres forestall Gehenna/The
Age  of  Sorrows  through  cooperative  ventures  rather
than  struggling  against  one  another.  Regardless,  the
players  should  derive  a  strong  sense  that  there’s
something  bad    happening  in  San  Francisco…  a
harbinger  of  something  even  worse  lurking  in  the
future. A sense of inevitable doom shrouds the city like
the  nighttime  fog,  and  everyone  feels  it,  even  if  few
acknowledge it.
INDIVIDUALITY AND IDENTITY

San  Francisco  has  long  been  the  destination  for
people  trying  to  “find  themselves,”  thus  sparking  a
culture-rich environment open to diverse lifestyles and
philosophies. In the mixing of Kuei-jin and Kindred —
along with their different cultures and backgrounds —
some vampires raise questions that make their elders
uncomfortable. They look around themselves and ask,

13

“ Is this the only existence for me?” They ask if it is their
bloodline, clan, Dharma, race or culture that defines
them — or if there is something more?

  Experience  exposes  many  Running  Monkeys  to
new ideas, heretical Dharmas and Kindred philosophies,
while  Western  vampires  learn  more  about  the  spirit
worlds, paths of enlightenment and Eastern principles.
Minority factions like the gaki , the anarchs and the
kànbujiàn  struggle  to  find  their  voices  in  the  Final
Nights,  trying  to  encourage  others  to  listen  to  what
they have to say. While this volatile mixture will most
likely lead to an explosion, there’ s also the chance of
something  entirely  new  arising  from  its  ashes,  a
possibility all sides view with trepidation.

MOOD

Place  and  time  are  important  in  establishing  a
story’s  mood.  San  Francisco’  s  modern  nights  are  a
study in contrasts: filled simultaneously with activity
and new opportunities while smothered by an almost
overpowering  sense  of  dread  and  imminent  disaster.
The city’s vampires exist in a state of siege; not quite at
war, but certainly not at peace either. Events spiral out
of control, liable to explode at any moment with many
different factions jockeying for position and  working
to ensure they emerge on top in the end — assuming
they  survive  long  enough  to  claim  victory.  This
environment offers Storytellers a wide pallet of moods
and tones to choose from.
FRIGHTENING

There’s a strong sense that matters in San Francisco
are just wrong, and that they can only lead to disaster
for all involved. Many Kuei-jin and Kindred feel trapped
on a roller coaster of events  that is rushing headlong
toward a break in the tracks. They can see the impending
disaster,  but  no  one  seems  able  to  divert  themselves
from the inevitable horror. Although both sides believe
victory  is  just  around  the  corner,  the  truth  is  that  a
sense of foreboding regarding both San Francisco’s and
the world’s future fills the gullet of every vampire in the
city.  How  do  these  creatures  deal  with  such  issues?
They pace, like all caged animals, awaiting that one
opportunity for primal savagery that they inherently
sense will accomplish nothing.

There’s also the fear of confronting the unknown.
Both sides know so little about their counterparts that
every night involves cautious probes into the dark and
the hope that some new danger doesn’ t come leaping
out with fangs bared. Kindred who hear tales of souls
dragged  screaming  into  Hell  (and  fighting  their  way
free) and Kuei-jin confronted with the reality of the
Embrace and the Curse of Caine can  only feel the chill
of  horror  touch  what  remains  of  their  souls.  They
wonder if their opponents more monstrous than they
are. In many ways, these vampires —  confronted by

14

distorted reflections of themselves — earn a bitter taste
of  what  mortals  must  feel  when  confronted  by  the
undead: They don’t like it at all.
GLOOMY

Frisco’s  omnipresent  fog  shrouds  the  streets,
covering  the  deeds  of  Kuei-jin  and  Kindred  alike.
Vampires penned in their neighborhoods feel like zoo
animals denied the freedom to hunt where they please.
The Kuei-jin grip on the city’ s heart seems unbreakable,
and more than a few Kindred venture to the other side,
becoming collaborators of opportunity. The invasion
seemingly snapped the back of the anarch movement.
It is no surprise that  the Kindred of San Francisco see
little hope for the future, if hope was ever part of their
vocabulary. Those who do cling to hope foresee a long
and difficult road ahead. Overcoming the Kuei-jin is
not easy, and it will be costly in terms of both resources
and the number of vampires delivered to Final Death
on both sides. Anyone who believes otherwise is at best
optimistic or at worst deluded.

The Kuei-jin’s outlook isn’t much better. Although
the  New  Promise  Mandarinate  has  achieved  some
success, it totters along a razor’ s edge, surrounded by
enemies  on  all  sides.  One  wrong  move  sends  the
Mandarinate and its collaborators tumbling headlong
into  Hell.  The  Kuei-jin  must  compromise  their
principles almost nightly to maintain their ground, and
every  evening  they  question  the  price  of  victory;  is
conquest  worth  the  struggle  when  it  requires  the
surrender  of  identity  and  culture,  turning  them  into
what they struggled against all along?

Despite the odds, vampires on both sides struggle
to accomplish their duty. Both sides march grimly
forward, no matter what the cost. And in the wake
of an uneasy truce, a sense of hopelessness fills the
hearts of San Francisco’s unliving more deeply than
ever before.
TENSE

A  vampire’s  existence  is  always  one  of  vigilance
against  any  number  of  threats,  but  San  Francisco’s
undead now endure in a state of almost constant siege.
The city’s new masters now corral the Kindred, once
undisputed  masters  of  the  night,  into  “Munificent
Transitioning Sectors.” Tempers run high when hunting
is difficult and scarce, or when someone threatens the
Masquerade. Fights break out; a thin red line is all that
separates the Kindred from frenzy each week.

  All  is  not  well  with  the  Kuei-jin  either.  They
constantly deal with the threat of Kin-jin reprisals,
counter-attacks  and  sabotage,  as  well  as  with  the
creeping  dangers  of  akuma    and  the  possibility  of
treason  within  their  own  ranks.  Accustomed  to
stability  and  tradition,  they  must  contend  with  the
city’s  ever-changing  conditions.  The  lack  of  solid
leadership splits  them into fractious mandarins who
vie for the title of ancestor.

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

The San Francisco of the modern nights is like Cold
War-era Berlin, modern Jerusalem or any city constantly
on the verge of war. Everyone is watchful and on guard,
waiting for the other shoe to drop and unleash a torrent
of  violence  that  neither  side  may  survive.  The  more
nerves fray and tempers stretch thin, the more likely a
single spark will light that apocalyptic fuse. Players and
characters  should  feel  that  San  Francisco  is  a  powder
keg, ready to explode at any minute.
NOVEL

All is not lost, however, in the City by the Bay.
There is a measure of hope  — at least the possibility
for  something  new  and  different  within  San
Francisco. The conflict shakes the traditional power
structures and modus operandi  on both sides, allowing
enterprising vampires opportunities to advance their
own  causes.  San  Francisco  is  where  cunning  and
capable  vampires  build  names  for  themselves,
provided they survive long enough. Ambition is in
the air,  with the coming struggle determining the
fate of prince and mandarin alike.

On  the  streets  and  in  the  havens,  Kuei-jin  and
Kindred mingle as  never before. Although centuries of
mistrust and misunderstanding remain a near-palpable
barrier  between  them,  there  is  also  the  potential  for
something  greater,  something  truly  unique  in  the
merging  of  East  and  West.  In  a  city  known  for  its
tolerance of new ideas, this might well be the birthplace
for new philosophies.

Few vampires can even conceive of peace between
the  two  factions.  Some,  however,  dare  dream  of  a
different way: one that avoids inevitable ruin and offers
instead the hope of understanding, and perhaps even
redemption. Then again, in the World of Darkness, the
most spectacular plummets occur from those closest to
heaven. Just ask Caine and the Wan Xian.

Of one thing is for certain: change comes, for good
or for ill. Regardless of what events unfold in the New
Promise Mandarinate, nothing will ever be quite the
same again.

HOW TO USE THIS BOOK

San Francisco by Night  provides all the necessary
information for Storytellers to set a single story or an
entire chronicle in the city’s modern nights. It begins
with a general overview, then delves into specifics of
important people, places  and things in San Francisco.
Storytellers  should  read  the  book  through  from
start to finish to familiarize themselves with the setting’
s  entirety  and  its  characters.  Players  looking  for
information on San Francisco can skip ahead and read
Chapters Three and Four, which summarize the current
situation in the city. They can peruse Chapter Five for
information on the supporting characters (Storyteller
permitting) and glance over Chapter Six for some ideas

CHAPTER ONE: INTRODUCTION

concerning what their characters may or may not know
about their opposites.

Chapter  One:  Introduction    summarizes  San
Francisco  in  relation  to  the  overarching  mood  and
potential  themes.  It  introduces  both  the  city  and
sourcebook in as concise a manner as possible.

Chapter  Two:  Interesting  Times  covers  the
city’s  history,  from  the  arrival  of  the  Europeans
through  to  the  modern  nights.  It  studies  the
interaction of Kuei-jin and Kindred in the city over
the years, leading up to the current conflict. Players
and Storytellers may incorporate historical periods
or  events  into  the  background  of  elder  vampires.
Alternatively, they may take inspiration from past
events to paint modern characters.

Chapter  Three:  Utopia  Lost  looks  at  San
Francisco’s  geography,  particularly  the  Munificent
Transitioning  Sectors  established  by  the  Kuei-jin  as
places where the Kindred may exist and hunt in relative
safety for now. The chapter discusses the city’s major
landmarks  and  places  of  importance  to  Kuei-jin  and
Kindred alike, along with the feng shui of San Francisco
and the region’s most contested areas.

Chapter Four: San Francisco Nights looks at the
nightly  existence  of  Kuei-jin  and  Kindred  under  the
New Promise Mandarinate in San Francisco. It describes
the unique problems (and potential solutions) facing
them,  the forces arrayed on both sides of the conflict
and how conditions in the city affect both Eastern and
Western vampires. It also takes an in-depth look at the
spirit worlds of San Francisco, as well as  how conditions
there affect the Kuei-jin.

Chapter Five: Honored Shen describes the City by
the  Bay’s  supernatural  inhabitants,  focusing  on  the
Kuei-jin  and  Kindred  factions.  There  is  additional
information on both neutral or third parties caught in
the midst of the struggle and other shen involved in the
city. Storytellers can use these descriptions (complete
with game stats) to spark story ideas or as  supporting
characters in a chronicle.

Chapter Six: Storytelling San Francisco provides
advice for Storytellers in using the material provided
herein. It offers an objective look at what the Kuei-jin
and Kindred know about each other, with story ideas,
game information on some of the unique rituals used by
San Francisco’ s vampires and material on the kànbujiàn
— Kuei-jin who take the Second Breath outside the
Middle  Kingdom  without  the  benefit  of  Dharmas  or
instruction from their elders.

RESOURCES

15

greater  information  on  its  supernatural  elements.
Fortunately, there is a wealth of resources available
for Storytellers looking for more information on the
city and its unique character.
FICTION

The Big Sleep by Raymond Chandler. Chandler set
this and  many other noir detective stories in the San
Francisco of the 1920s and ’30s. It provides an excellent
feel for the development  of the city in the World of
Darkness (along with ideas for a historical chronicle, if
the Storyteller is so inclined).

Bone  by  Fae  Myenne  Ng  (Hyperion,  1993).  A
novel about three sisters growing up in San Francisco’s
Chinatown,  providing  a  good  “inside”  look  at  the
neighborhood and culture. Her other book,  Eating
Chinese Food Naked, is not set in San Francisco but
may also be of interest for its approach to Chinese-
American culture.

Sandman: Three Septembers and a January by Neil
Gaiman (reprinted in the Fables & Reflections graphic
novel, DC Comics/Vertigo). An interesting tale about
Joshua  Norton,    a  famous  San  Franciscan  and  self-
proclaimed Emperor of the United States.

Several  of  Anne  Rice’s  novels  touch  upon  San
Francisco (it is where Louis tells his story to a reporter
in  Interview  With  a  Vampire,  as  well  as  where  Lestat
makes his debut as a rock star in The Vampire Lestat).
Rice’s Lives of the Mayfair Witches series presents San
Francisco from a different angle. All of the presentations
are rich in ideas for a World of Darkness chronicle.
NON-FICTION

The  Hollow  City    by  Rebecca  Solnit  and  Susan
Schwartzenberg (Verso Press, 2000). A look at how
San  Francisco  is  becoming  the  victim  of  its  own
success, with the bohemian culture that made the city
famous  being  pushed  out  by  dot.com  millionaires.
Useful  inspiration  for  World  of  Darkness-related
history and atmosphere.

Old San Francisco: The Biography of a City from the
Early  Days  to  the  Earthquake  (Putnam,  1975).  A
historical  guide  to  San  Francisco,  from  the  city’  s
founding  until  its  ruin  at  the  hands  of  the  1906
earthquake and fire. It is useful for background and
historical stories.

Various city guidebooks also provide greater detail
about landmarks, shops, hotels and attractions in San
Francisco.  The Lonely  Planet  and Fodor’s  guides  are
particularly good.
FILM AND TELEVISION

San Francisco is a large and diverse city, and this
book focuses on its existence as part of the World of
Darkness. This means there is less coverage of all the
various  nuances  and  locales  of  the  city  itself  and

Escape from Alcatraz . A good (although somewhat
dated)  look  at  the  legendary  island  prison  and  the
three men who may have been the only convicts to
escape  from  it.  Useful  information  for  turning  the

16

prison into the Camarilla staging-ground for retaking
the city from the Kuei-jin.

The  Joy  Luck  Club.  A  film  about  the  trials  and
triumphs of Chinese-American women in modern-day
San Francisco.

L.A. Confidential. While the film’s setting is Los
Angeles  rather  than  San  Francisco,  it  captures  the
feel  of  operating  within  San  Francisco’  s  PD  in  the
Final Nights, with double-crosses and rival factions
vying for control.

Pacific  Heights.  San  Francisco  yuppies  rent  out  a
room  in  their  house  to  a  man  who  turns  out  to  be  a
psychopath. Great location shots as well as mood shots
on  San  Francisco’  s  spooky  side.  A  good  feel  for  the
Pacific Heights community for chronicles focusing on
its political doings.

The Streets of San Francisco. This old cop show is
extremely  dated,  but  still  conveys  some  of  San
Francisco’s  feel,  along  with  ideas  about  crime  and
criminals in the city. The various Dirty Harry  movies
also  transpire  in  the  city,  for  inspiration  for  hard-
bitten, big guns style chronicles.
WORLD OF DARKNESS RESOURCES

In  addition  to  the  material  in  Kindred  of  the
East  and  the    Kindred  of  the  East  Companion,
players and Storytellers may find the following World
of  Darkness  books  useful  in  conjunction  with San
Francisco by Night.

Blood Magic: Secrets of Thaumaturgy. A sourcebook
on  the  Thaumaturgy  discipline  for  Vampire:  The
Masquerade,  useful  for  expanding  on  the  powers  and
research of this book’s Tremere characters —  particularly
Wan Zhu (p. 88) and Luna Demain (p.110).

The Gilded Cage. This sourcebook for Vampire:
The  Masquerade  takes  a  hard  look  at  vampires’
interactions  with  their  natural  environment:  the
city. Its guidelines on handling Kindred influence of
mortals and their institutions fit perfectly with the
political machinations transpiring in San Francisco.
It can add additional depth to chronicles as well as
providing  ideas  for  how  the  Kindred  and  Kuei-jin
continue their struggles through their mortal proxies
(as outlined in Chapter Four).

Killing  Streets.  This  sourcebook  for  Kindred  of
the East  describes the criminal organizations Kuei-jin
often use as Scarlet Screens. In particular, information
on the Chinese Tongs and Triads are very useful, given
Kuei-jin efforts to revive the Tongs of San Francisco’s
Chinatown as their agents in the modern nights. It also
contains rules for the “broken mirrors” created when
the Yomi World spills over into the Middle Kingdom.
Nights  of  Prophesy.  Another  sourcebook  for
Vampire:  The  Masquerade,  this  compilation  of
adventures discusses major events in adventure format
changing  the  World  of  Darkness.  The  adventure

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

Walking  After  Midnight  plays  upon  the  events
surrounding the fall of San Francisco to the Cathayans.
It includes the anarchs’ ill-fated assault on the peace
negotiations between the Quincunx and Camarilla. It
also  serves  as  an  excellent  launching  point  for
Storytellers looking to run a San Francisco chronicle.
Shadow War. This Kindred of the East sourcebook
takes  an  in-depth  look  at  how  the  Kuei-jin  manage
conflicts  with  each  other,  ranging  from  low-level
disagreements  to    open  warfare.  It  contains  useful
advice for handling the growing friction between the
different Kuei-jin factions in San Francisco and their
struggles with the Kin-jin.

World of Darkness: Hong Kong. Some characters
and  events  from  this  sourcebook  influence  current
affairs in San Francisco. Certainly the Fence Mender
faction is interested in resolving the ongoing conflict
and reclaiming Hong Kong for the Flame Court while
the Kindred struggle to hold the city. Some elements of
that  struggle  mirror  those  in  San  Francisco,  and
Storytellers may gain ideas for tying the futures of the
two cities together in a chronicle.

LEXICON

New  frontiers  and  new  situations  call  for  new
language  to  describe  them.  Some  of  these  terms
have become common parlance in San Francisco’s
modern nights.

Bamboo  Princes:    Young  Kuei-jin  who  favor
modernization of the August Courts and dragging their
kind into the 21st century. Practically all of them took
the Second Breath in the 20th century and are more
comfortable with modern technology and conveniences
than their elders.

Cathayan  Free  Zone:  The  Camarilla’s  term,
referring  to  the  plan  to  keep  the  Kuei-jin  contained
within San Francisco, thus making the area around the
city a “Cathayan Free Zone” (or CFZ).

Cloud Mandarins: The Kuei-jin administrators
of San Francisco, so called because their authority
and  mandate  remains  nebulous  and  unclear,  but
lofty and idealistic.

Compliance Supervisors: Also called “wardens,”
these Kuei-jin operate in packs and ensure the Kindred
remain within their assigned sectors. While Final Death
is  a  decision  reserved  by  the  Cloud  Mandarins,  the
Compliance  Supervisors  may  destroy  a  vampire  to
defend themselves. Otherwise, they have full sanction
in punishing “transgressors.”

Extraordinary Commission on the Rectification
of Borders:  Commission created by the August Courts
of the Quincunx to satisfy demands of action regarding
the occupied capitols of the courts and the continued
incursion of foreigners into the Middle Kingdom. The

CHAPTER ONE: INTRODUCTION

Commission’s Ancestor is the Bone Flower Jiejie Li,
the Elder Sister Plum.

Foreigner-Vanquishing  Crusaders:  A  faction  of
Kuei-jin favoring crusades against the unrighteous to
stay the arrival of the Sixth Age. Currently in disfavor
within the August Courts.

Glorious Ocean-Crossing Warriors: The force of
Kuei-jin that invaded Los Angeles under the orders of
the Quincunx. Largely wiped out by a terrible storm in
the Yin World, with the remnants incorporated into
the New Promise Mandarinate.

Gum San: “Golden Mountain.” Old Chinese name

for San Francisco, sometimes still used by Kuei-jin.

gweilo: “White ghost.” Chinese term of disrespect
for foreigners (mainly Caucasians) and the equivalent
of the Japanese gaijin. Commonly heard in the modern
nights of San Francisco.

Harmonious Menders of Broken Fences: A faction
of Kuei-jin that favors focusing on internal problems in
the  Middle  Kingdom  and  securing  its  borders  (the
“broken fences” in their name) against outsiders.

Heaven Promise Society: A loose alliance of rogue
Kuei-jin and Kindred who believe in the possibility of
redemption and enlightenment (or Golconda).

heimin: “Half person.” Those without a court or
wu are  tolerated among Kuei-jin as messengers and go-
betweens;  they  remain  outside  conventional  society.
In  San  Francisco,  the  term  applies  to  some  Kin-jin
within the New Promise Mandarinate.

hin:  The  lowest  rank  of  vampires  in  Kuei-jin
society. Hin are students, accorded the right to exist
and  feed,  but  no  other  privileges  until  they  prove
themselves worthy. Ignorant of Kuei-jin culture, most
Kin-jin in the New Promise Mandarinate are hin by
Quincunx standards.

17

kànbujiàn: “Unable to see.” Kuei-jin who took the
Second Breath outside the Middle Kingdom and know
nothing of the Dharmas or proper behavior.

Munificent Transitioning Sectors: Parts of San
Francisco set aside by the New Promise Mandarinate
as  “reservations”  for  the  Kindred.  Intended  as  a
“temporary”    arrangement  until  the  Mandarinate
stabilizes  the  situation  in  the  city.  The  five  M-T
Sectors are Pacific Heights, SoMa, the Castro, Sunset
and Bay View.

New  Promise  Mandarinate:  Formal  alliance
between the Kuei-jin of the Quincunx and some Kin-
jin of North America. It currently controls Los Angeles
and San Francisco.

Project:  Crosshairs:  Tremere  study  of  the
Cathayans (particularly their strengths and weaknesses)
underway in San Francisco and at the Tremere chantry
in Las Vegas.

nisei:  The  American-born  children  of  Japanese

immigrants.

Two-Fang  Serpent  Plan:  A  plan  compromising
the pursuits of the Glorious Ocean-Crossing Warriors
and Harmonious Menders of Broken Fences. The first
fang advocates strengthening the borders of the Middle
Kingdom against future incursions, while the second
speaks of invading a foreign city and holding it for a
while, verifying it can be done.

Ukiyo: “Floating World.” An uji of gaki based in
Japan Center of San Francisco. Progressive, but limited
to a minority faction of the New Promise Mandarinate.
Wicked  City:  The  hell  ruled  by  the  Yama  King
Mikaboshi.  The  Wicked  City  insinuates  itself  into
existing cities with sufficiently corrupt chi. It is currently
doing so in San Francisco.

18

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

CHAPTER TWO: INTERESTING TIMES

19

Chapter Two:
Interesting
Times

May you live in interesting times.
— Chinese curse

A rich and at times tragic history precedes the current
state of affairs in San Francisco, though many of the vampires
embroiled in the conflict are unaware of it (and perhaps
doomed to repeat it). What both  Kindred and Kuei-jin know
is that history has picked up its pace in the Bay Area as well
as the rest of the world for some time now. It is a pendulum
racing on the downward swing , a prisoner of both gravity and
momentum and subject to forces and paths not of its choosing.
Aware of this, both sides fear there may be no stopping the
events they set in motion within the city.

THE EARLIEST DAYS

While  San  Francisco’s  history  only  covers  a  two-
century span, the history of the Bay area extends back
much farther than that. Native American tribes like the
Ohlone and the Miwok inhabited the region long before
the arrival of the first Europeans or Asians landed on the
shores of North America. These people knew nothing of
t he Curse of Caine or the Fall of the Wan Xian, although
they understood the creatures haunting the world’s dark
and wild places. For the most part, the tribes remained
small, warding  off undue attention from their preternatural

predators. They lived in relative peace with the Changing
Folk  of  the  wilds,  never  dreaming  their  fellow  mortals
from across the Atlantic would prove the greatest threat
to their existence.
EXPLORATION AND SETTLEMENT

The  first  European  visitors  to  curse  the  shores  of
California came in 1542, when Portuguese explorer Juan
Rodriguez  Cabrillo  circumnavigated  the  tip  of  South
America  and  sailed  as  far  north  as  the  Russian  River,
mapping the western coast of South and North America
along his route. In 1579, famed English sailor Sir Francis
Drake  landed  on  California’  s  northern  coast,  pausing
briefly  to  claim  the  land  for  Queen  Elizabeth  before
repairing his ships and setting sail once again. Sebastian
Cermeno,  another  Portuguese  explorer,  “discovered”
Punta de los Reyes (King’ s Point) in the 1590s. All the
visiting  Europeans  missed  the  narrow  entrance  to  San
Francisco Bay, however, shrouded as it was by mist and
nearly invisible from the sea. It would be centuries more
before  a  European  discovered  the  site  of  what  would
become the city of San Francisco.

20

BURIED TREASURE

Before the fall of the San Francisco Chantry,
Tremere  experts  on  the  mystic  practices  of
California’s Native Americans believe that a tribal
society called the Kuksu Cult used magic to shield
the  bay  from  notice.    The  Kuksu  Cult,  which
predominated the region, believed that by dressing
in totemic costumes, they could convince the spirits
to relate their knowledge and power. The Tremere
hoped to learn more about the Kuksu Cult’ s breadth
of wisdom in the mystic crafts. When the Kuei-jin
invaded,  however,  the  Tremere  hid  the  files
somewhere within San Francisco. Kuei-jin assassins
destroyed the only Tremere who knew the location.

In 1769, a Spanish soldier named Gaspar de Protola
accidentally  stumbled  upon  the  bay’s  entrance  while
sailing to Monterey Bay in the south. Six years later, Juan
Ayala actually sailed into San Francisco Bay on a mapping
expedition  for  the  Spanish  crown.  It  did  not  take  the
Spanish long to realize the value of their new discovery,
given its strategic and economic potential.

In  1776,  about  a  week  before  the  thirteen  English
colonies on the  other side of the continent declared their
independence,  Juan  Bautista  de  Anza  and  some  thirty
Spanish-speaking families made their way from Sonora,
Mexico to San Francisco Bay. They claimed the land for
Spain and settled there. Their headquarters was an  adobe
fort they named the Presidio.

The settlers established a mission about a mile away
from the fort. The priests officially named the mission
Nuestra Senora de Dolores  or Mission Delores, and dedicated
the church to St. Francis of Assisi; it was known as “San
Francisco,” the name later applied to the bay itself. The
mission’ s priests took an interest in the spiritual welfare
of the local Indian tribes, ensuring they were baptized and
converted to Christianity; for the most part, the natives
welcomed trade with the new settlers.
INDEPENDENCE AND GROWTH

In 1821, Mexico won its independence from Spain,
secularizing the Spanish missions and abandoning interest
in the spiritual well being of the natives — or anyone else,
for that matter. Freed from European rule, California’s ports
opened for trade and shipped a wealth of goods (mostly
hides, furs, wood and tallow) by sea  around Cape Horn to
the burgeoning factories in New England and New York.
Trappers and hunters told tall tales about the strange beasts
they encountered in the California hills, but few paid them
any heed so  long as the goods continued to flow.

The area’s growing prosperity was enough to convince
English sailor William Richardson to jump ship in 1822
and settle there. He fell in love with the daughter of the
Presidio’ s commandant and converted to Catholicism to
marry her. He established a trading post that he named

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

Yerba Buena (or “good herb”) for the wild mint growing
in the area. The aptly chosen name later became  a source
of  great  humor  to  the  people  of  San  Francisco  in  the
1960s. Richardson’ s enterprise was wildly successful, and
Yerba Buena grew from a trading post to a small town,
with a saloon of ill repute frequented by English-speaking
hunters and trappers.

Even though Yerba Buena and Mission Dolores grew,
their population remained a few hundred at best, comprised
of  mostly  farmers,  trappers  and  a  handful  of  soldiers
stationed  at  the  Presidio.  During  the  war  between  the
United States and Mexico in 1847, U.S. Marines from the
warship Portsmouth  seized the Presidio and the main plaza
of Yerba Buena. The dozen or so Mexican soldiers at the
Presidio  surrendered  without  firing  a  single  shot.
Commander John Montgomery raised the U.S. flag and
declared California an American territory. Among the
first acts of the new territorial government was to change
the settlement’s name to that of the bay: San Francisco.
Such  small  political  victories  were  certainly  of  no
interest to either  the Kindred hunting in the nighttime
streets of Boston, New York and Philadelphia, or to those
sleeping by day in the mansions of Louisiana, Georgia o r
Carolina. The events in San Francisco were of even less
interest to the Kuei-jin, who barely knew of California at
all  and  remained  far  more  concerned  with  the  Opium
Wars brought on by European (and Kindred) incursion
into the Middle Kingdom. That, however, was about to
change with a single word….

GUM SAN:
THE GOLDEN MOUNTAIN

“Gold! Gold in the American River!” Mormon preacher
Sam  Brannan  shouted  that  memorable  statement  while
running through San Francisco’s streets in 1848. Although
Brannan was a notorious charlatan, in this case he shouted
the  truth.  Gold  was  found  in  the  riverbed  at  a  sawmill
owned by Swiss-born John Augustus Sutter. Despite Sutter’s
best efforts to keep the discovery quiet, the news spread like
wildfire. Sam Brannan, incidentally, purchased large tracts
of coastal land in San Francisco, as well as cornering the
market  on  shovels,  pickaxes  and  canned  goods  before
making his fateful announcement. He became fabulously
wealthy without turning over a single spade of dirt.

It seemed the world was primed for the news from San
Francisco. The “Year of Revolutions” swept through Europe,
with political and social unrest in many of her major cities.
The Potato Famine stalked Ireland, driving people from
their homes in hope of a new life elsewhere. The United
States  caught  its  breath  following  the  war  with  Mexico
while  the  conflicts  leading  to  the  Civil  War  simmered
beneath the surface. China reeled from the  Opium Wars
and  the  abdication  of  Hong  Kong  to  the  British,  while
reforms swept through Japan. All this was dry tinder for the
spark of hope ignited by the discovery of riches in California.

CHAPTER TWO: INTERESTING TIMES

21

People  from  around  the  world  flocked  to  San
Francisco in droves. Ships departed from docks in Europe
and America groaning from the weight of passengers
and mining equipment. Ship-crews immediately deserted
upon    reaching  California’s  shores,  leaving  boats
abandoned and turning Yerba Buena Cove into a “forest
of masts.” Townspeople in America’ s heartland headed
west in wagon trains, leaving behind empty homes and
shops with signs in their windows reading, “GONE
TO THE DIGGINGS.”

In 1849, San Francisco’s population soared from
900  to  26,000.  Another  100,000  people  drifted
through the area on their way into the California hills
and hinterlands in search of their fortune. San Francisco
crushed  the  equivalent  of  fifty  years  of  growth  and

development into the course of a single year.

The effects of San Francisco’ s sudden gold boom did
not  escape  the  Kindred.  While  their  elders  continued
their  affairs  in  Europe  and  the  Eastern  Seaboard,  the
promise of wealth and blood offered by an overcrowded
boomtown drew young vampires from across the nation.
Ambitious Camarilla neonates saw the potential to create
domains of their own, away from the stifling grip of their
elders. Meanwhile, Sabbat packs and anarchs  anticipated
a  new,  unspoiled  frontier  where  they  could  do  as  they
pleased.  The  Kindred  certainly  found  opportunities  in
San  Francisco,  where  the  arrival  of  a  ship  laden  with
heavy crates was commonplace. In a place where  so many
new people intermingled, hardly anyone noticed one or
two strangers among thousands… or cared if a few of

those new arrivals mysteriously vanished.

 Although there was no gold in San Francisco
itself, it was the largest port community near the
gold fields, making it was the destination of choice
for disembarking prospectors. Although a few of
them  actually  found  gold,  most  didn’t.  Instead,
most of the money in the area was made in a more
traditional fashion. It didn’t take long for the locals
to discover that it was far more profitable catering to
the  miners  and  prospectors  than  searching  for  gold
themselves. Shops, saloons and all manner of businesses
sprang up in San Francisco, looking to serve the needs
of the burgeoning population.

The abandoned ships in Yerba Buena Cove were put
to  good  use  in  helping  the  city  grow.  The  city  fathers
handled the problem by hauling the ships  up onto the
shore,  where  they  were  either  broken  up  and  used  to
construct new buildings and furniture or simply turned
into buildings themselves. Cut a door or two in the hull of
an  overturned  ship  and  you  had  a  saloon.  Many    such
structures sprang up along the harbor.

In the shadows between these new buildings and in
the tent cities of the newcomers, the Kindred hunted with
near abandon. Prospectors in the San Francisco Bay area
fell  victim  to  accidents,  the  elements,  starvation  and
despair. They committed suicide at the rate of over 1,000
a year. It was not uncommon to stumble across a dried-up

22

corpse bearing a pickaxe and shovel in the hills; common
enough, in fact, that inquiry into the deaths were unheard
of. Nobody cared how the poor wretch died.

The hunting was plentiful and good, so much so that
vampires all but ignored the traditional conflicts between
Camarilla and Sabbat while glutting themselves on the
bounty of blood. Naturally, vampires fought over certain
watering  holes,  but  the  conflicts  simply  demonstrated
how  easily  they  fell  to  their  baser  needs.  Kindred  and
Cainite were all too similar in their bestial tendencies —
except when the Sabbat and Camarilla sects stepped in to
enforce  opinion  and  policy.  Regardless  of  allegiance,
however, all  vampires quickly learned to confine their
hunting to the new city. The Lupines stalked the wilds
outside San Francisco as guards encircling a prison. They
shredded the first vampires to stray into their domain as
a warning to the rest.
A NEW LAND OF PROMISE

Of course, new arrivals to San Francisco came not
only from Europe, Mexico and the United States, but also
from the Middle Kingdom. China’s Opium Wars against
England  and  the  ongoing  encroachment  of  gweilo  —
white barbarians — everywhere strained the situation in
the Far East. To many Chinese, California was Gum San,
the “Golden Mountain,” a land of promise and opportunity
away from war and starvation. Around the time of the
Gold Rush, the first ship laden with some three hundred
Chinese arrived in San Francisco.

Unfortunately,  these  immigrants  discovered  their
“golden land of promise”  was a rough frontier following
the Golden Rule: Those with the gold make the rules. The
Chinese  remained  a  close-knit  community  even  after
their arrival, laying the foundations for San Francisco’ s
modern Chinatown. Rather than becoming prospectors
and miners (though some of them did), many Chinese
found  employment  either  serving  the  needs  of  San
Francisco’s more fortunate inhabitants or working for the
powerful railroad companies, who sought cheap labor to
complete the transcontinental railroad.

Of  course,  with  the  Chinese  and  other  Middle
Kingdom  immigrants  came  the  Wan  Kuei,  the  Ten
Thousand Demons. It was not  that the August Courts had
any interest in a frontier city in a barbaric land, but the
presence of some Kuei-jin was inevitable. A few, disgraced
in shadow wars or fallen from favor in the August Courts,
chose self-imposed exile over facing the Eye of Heaven
and Final Death. Some found the freedom of the frontier
exhilarating while others suffered in silence, hoping to
redeem themselves and return to civilization. There were
also those mortals who crossed the  ocean only to die in
their new land, fight their way free of torture in Yomi and
take the Second Breath. More experienced Kuei-jin usually
dealt with the resulting chih-mei.

Regardless of their reasons for coming to the Golden
Mountain, though, the Wan Kuei who made the ocean

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

crossing quickly discovered they were not alone in San
Francisco’s nights.

THE KÀNBUJIÀN

In Chinatown’s early years, the Kuei-jin learned
that  leaving  the  Middle  Kingdom  behind  did  not
necessarily free a soul from the weight dragging it
down to Yomi after death. On occasion, a mortal of
Chinese  descent  would  take  the  Second  Breath
outside the bounds of civilization and away from the
watchful eyes of the Kuei-jin jina  and elders. With
no aid from others of their kind and no knowledge of
their  nature,  most  of  these  poor  unfortunates
succumbed  to  their  Demons,  becoming  ravening
flesh-eaters  that  the  Kuei-jin  were  forced  to  hunt
down and destroy.  On rare occasions, the Kin-jin
discovered one of these chih-mei and destroyed it as
a threat to the Masquerade, unaware of what it really
was or where it originated.

The  Wan  Kuei  called  these  poor  wretches
kànbujiàn — “unable to see” — because they were
blind  to  Dharma  and  the  path  to  the  Hundred
Clouds. If found soon enough, they were often able
to master their P’o nature and join Kuei-jin society;
if they failed or were not found in time, the Wan
Kuei “mercifully” gave them Final Death. What the
Kuei-jin did not know at first  — and later refused to
acknowledge — was that some rare kànbujiàn mastered
their Demon nature on their own. Most did so by
surrendering to the Yama Kings and becoming akuma
,  but  a  few  struggled  to  find  their  own  way,  even
discovering  some  Dharma  principles  through  trial
and error. Their Way was flawed and fraught with
peril, but their determination was great.

For more about the kànbujiàn of San Francisco,

see Chapters Five and Six.

EAST MEETS WEST

The  first  encounters  between  Kuei-jin  and  San
Francisco’s Kindred were brief and fleeting. The Kindred
quickly discovered the clannish Chinese immigrants were
better left alone. While most Europeans and Americans
had abandoned such “childish” notions as vampires, the
Chinese  still  maintained  their  old  ways.  The  Kindred
were surprised that Asians knew enough to take precautions
against creatures of the night. Some of them —  paper
charms, rice scattered across thresholds and the like —
were  laughable.  Others,  such  as  prayer  beads,  charms
backed by a true and abiding faith or the simple wisdom
to huddle close to  the light in groups, made the Chinese
more difficult prey.

Of course, most Kindred created excuses not to bother
rather than admit difficulty. “Chinese blood is thin and
not as satisfying,” some said. “They’re not as vigorous, and

CHAPTER TWO: INTERESTING TIMES

less  lively  than  other  mortals.”  “It’s  a  small  loss,  since
there is so much already available.” Still, it vexed some
Kindred  to  be  denied  anything.  Some  accepted  the
challenge  by  hunting  more  “interesting”  prey  in
Chinatown… only to vanish and never be seen again.

Rumors  circulated  among  the  city’s  vampires.  They
said the Chinese knew far more than they let on, luring
Kindred into some kind of trap. Another whisper claimed
that their  numbers included mysterious magi or vampire-
hunters. Yet others said that they had forged a pact with the
Lupines, or they were host to a hitherto-unknown clan of
Cainites . This last fiction was the closest to the truth.

The Wan Kuei needed the Chinese community to
build  Scarlet  Screens  in  this  new  and  alien  land.  To
protect  their  interests,  they    destroyed  any  threat  to
Chinatown. In the process, the Demon People learned
more  about  the  White  Demons  dwelling  among  the
Western mortals, the ones who came with the gweilo to
the Middle Kingdom.

The  first  thing  the  Kuei-jin  realized  was  that  the
Westerners were too numerous; they were too few to risk
open  confrontations.  So  the  Wan  Kuei  remained  in
Chinatown’ s shadows and kept to their own affairs and
council. They gave the gweilo vampires good reason to
avoid their domain, but did not venture too far outside of
it either. Those who disobeyed or threatened this version
of the Kindred’ s Masquerade paid with their unlives.
SHADOW PLAYS

Lawlessness ruled San Francisco’s streets in the years
immediately following the Gold Rush. The population
surge overtaxed the city’ s limited law enforcement, and
bribery helped ensure the law looked the other way for
almost  anything.  Along  the  waterfront  rested  saloons
and whorehouses where miners spent their money, with
roving  gangs  of  criminals  more  than  willing  to  help
lighten their pockets.

One  of  the  most  notorious  gangs  was  the  Sydney
Ducks, comprised of criminals who had escaped exile in
Australia and made  their way to California. They would
waylay passers-by, throwing a bag over their heads and
relieving them of their money and valuables (often leaving
the victim dead or merely stunned with a strike from a sap
or fist). The practice became known as “hooding” and the
criminals  who  did  it  as  “hoodlums.”  The  Australian
gangsters also operated protection rackets in and along
the Barbary Coast. The Sydney Ducks set fire to parts of
the city five times for denying them tribute. It happened
so  often  that  Chinatown  and  Barbary  Coast  residents
built exclusively with brick and stone rather than wood,
so their homes and businesses would not burn so easily.
Some  Kindred  thought  it  too  convenient  that  the
depredations  of  the  Sydney  Ducks  hurt  businesses
influenced by the Camarilla as well as burning out portions
of Chinatown. Rumors claimed the gang was under the
influence of a Sabbat pack or anarchs. Some even believed
that its roster might have included vampires, though no

23

proof  of  these  conjectures  ever  manifested.  The  fires,
however, did convince many local Kindred and Kuei-jin
to find fireproof havens  — a precaution that would prove
vital a few decades later.

By the mid-1850s, miners had panned or mined out
most of California’s surface gold, leaving only the deeper
underground  veins  to  be  tapped.  Those  wise  enough  to
invest their money carefully (including the Ventrue and
other Camarilla vampires) funded large mining operations
to dig out the gold that  remained beyond the means and
reach  of  individual  miners.  The  continually  expanding
waterfront also became the mouth by which to feed the
hungry factories of the East Coast and Europe. During that
period, trading companies shipped every product workers
could dig, drag, chop or tear from the mountains, fields and
forests. The city became the premier center for commerce
along the Pacific Ocean, finally drawing the attention of
the elders and Princes that their childer had left behind
years before. The unspoken truce between Camarilla, Sabbat
and anarch vampires in San Francisco was over.

Of course, “peace”  was a relative term. Kindred from
all three factions struggled against each other previously,
but  mostly  over  territory  and  mortals.  When  the
Transcontinental Railway became a reality, the Camarilla
mentality reasserted  itself. It was decided that San Francisco
should  be  brought  under  the  Camarilla’s  aegis,  to  that
ensure the Sabbat and anarchs would not control the city.
PUBLIC VIGILANCE

As usual, the Camarilla operated behind the scenes,
using mortal proxies to carry out their plans. The Sabbat
Cainites in 1850s San Francisco were wealthy and powerful.
In very un-sect-like machinations, they influenced mortals
— usually criminals —  who in turn assumed positions of
power locally during the Gold Rush and held them through
graft,  corruption  and  influence  peddling.  Ballot  stuffing
was practiced openly and an honest man’s vote counted for
little. The common people , however, grew tired of this
lawless state of affairs. Their desire to see justice was the
Camarilla’s weapon against the Sabbat.

On June 9, 1851 in Sydney Cove, a man named John
Jenkins simply walked into a merchant’s store, picked up
the safe and walked away. He loaded the safe into a boat
and  calmly  rowed  out  into  the  bay.  Several  of  the
merchant’s  friends  and  associates  pursued  Jenkins  and
caught him easily, though he dumped the safe overboard.
The public outcry was considerable.

Local  citizens  formed  the  Committee  for  Public
Vigilance, which tried and executed Jenkins on its own
authority. The Committee was very loosely organized at
first, but its presence did give San Francisco’s criminals
pause, at least for a short while. Jenkins’  boldness and the
relative ease of his capture sent rumors among the Sabbat
of a Camarilla plot, but local corruption ran deep. The
Sabbat  knew  it  would  take  more  than  a  few  outraged
vigilantes to mobilize San Francisco’s citizens against its
mortal power base.

24

EMPEROR NORTON

 At the preemptory request of a large majority of
the citizens of these United States, I Joshua Norton,
formerly of Algoa Bay, Cape of Good Hope, and now
for  the  last  nine  years  and  ten  months  past  of  San
Francisco, California, declare and proclaim myself the
Emperor of These United States.

— Joshua Norton, September 19, 1859
The  first  and  only  Emperor  of  the  United
States was born in London, England in 1819. He
arrived in San Francisco by way of South Africa at
the  age  of  30,  with  the  sum  of  $40,000  to  his
name.  Within  five  years,  he’d  lost  that
considerable fortune by speculating in real estate
and attempting to corner the local market on rice.
Living in poverty, Norton wrote a proclamation
declaring himself Emperor of the  United States.
It was published in a local newspaper, at least in
part due to the sheer novelty of the idea. He wore
a uniform that he obtained from a second-hand
store and walked the streets, administering to the
daily needs of his “ domain.”

Emperor Norton issued various proclamations
during his “reign,”  including the abolition of the
Democratic and Republican parties and a decree
against using “the abominable word ‘Frisco,’ which
has no linguistic or other warrant.”  That alone
carried a $25.00 fine. He also proposed the idea of
a “League of Nations,”  where the international
community could settle its disputes (many years
before  the  actual  League  of  Nations  signed  its
charter  in  San  Francisco).  He  issued  his  own
money,  which  he  traded  for  legal  tender;  many
stores  came  to  accept  Norton’  s  currency  as
payment.  He  even  mediated  public  disputes,
defusing  one  anti-Chinese  demonstration  by
quietly  standing  and  reciting  the  Lord’s  Prayer.
His example shamed the demonstrators so greatly
that they returned  to their own affairs.

Idle  speculation  about  Emperor  Norton
circulated  among  San  Francisco’s  Kindred.    One
account  said  he  was  the  victim  (or,  perhaps,
beneficiary)  of  Malkavian  manipulation.  Others
suggested he was a puppet of one faction or another,
or t hat he provided a useful spectacle for the mortal
herd.  Some  even  believed  he  was  fey-touched.
Whatever  the  case,  vampires  considered  Norton
inviolate because of his fame and public standing.
He was left as a purely mortal phenomenon.

Norton died on January 8, 1880 on California
Street. He was buried in the Masonic Cemetery, and
his funeral procession ran two miles long. Between
10,000 and 30,000 people attended his funeral to
bid farewell to America’ s first and only Emperor.

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

It wasn’t long, however, before matters worsened. In
1855, there were nearly 500 murders in California but only
6 legal executions. Corrupt politicians maintained a tight
hold on the government. Municipal  spending was through
the  roof  —  much  of  it  went  into  graft,  bribes  and
embezzlement, lining the pockets of the city’s “civil servants.”
 James King was a prominent San Francisco banker
who had lost his fortune when local financial panic closed
his bank. Outspoken against local corruption, he used his
remaining money and the encouragement of his friends to
found  a newspaper voicing his opinions. In October of
1855, King began publication of the Evening Bulletin, a
four-page paper. In it, he denounced criminals and political
figures alike in fearless editorials that had people all over
the city talking.

When  notorious  gambler  Charles  Cora  shot  and
killed U.S. Marshal Richardson, he was “formally arrested”
by friends of his who held public office. It was considered
likely that he would walk away a free man. Following the
incident, King ran an editorial saying that that if Cora
wasn’t  hanged,  Sheriff  David  Scannell  should  take  his
place on the gallows.

King also took on city supervisor James Casey, revealing
that Casey was a felon who had served time in Sing-Sing
Prison in New York. In retribution, Casey shot King outside
the Bulletin  office on Montgomery Street. Witnesses rushed
the wounded reporter to a doctor while Casey’s cronies in
law-enforcement “took him into custody.”

In response to the shooting, over  a thousand people
turned out at the Montgomery Block in a show of support
for James King. The crowd later made its way to the Plaza,
where  word  circulated  that  the  Committee  for  Public
Vigilance was reforming. The following morning, members
of  the  1851  Committee  met  and  created  a  new,  more
organized  group.  They  penned  an  oath  of  fealty  and
assigned each member a number by which he would be
known within the organization, to maintain anonymity.
A few days later, the Committee consisted of some 3,500
members.  In  the  meantime,  however,  James  King  died
from his gunshot wound at home.

The Committee for Public Vigilance marched on the
jail guarded by hundreds of local militia and law officers
loyal to James Casey. Using a cannon to  batter down the
door, the Committee took Casey with little protest from his
protectors.  They  also  took  gambler  Charles  Cora  into
custody.  Both  men  received  advocates  and  stood  trial
before  a  jury  of  Committee  members,    who  summarily
convicted the two men and sentenced them to a public
hanging. An immense crowd filled Sacramento Street to
watch the double execution, cementing the Committee for
Public Vigilance’s power in the minds of San Franciscans.
Meanwhile,  the  Camarilla  encouraged  the
Committee’s  vigilantes  to  attack  the  Sabbat’s  mortal
proxies in the name of justice. They eliminated many of
the Sabbat’s pawns from  positions of power. The so-called
revolution also hid the nightly movement of Camarilla
scourges  eliminating  Sabbat  targets  and  consigning

CHAPTER TWO: INTERESTING TIMES

vampires to ash. As far as the Camarilla was concerned,
the  strikes  were  clean  and  precise.  They  believed  that
they were the cause of the Sabbat’s fall in San Francisco.
What they did not realize was the extent of the Sabbat’s
internal dissent and scattered resources. The Sabbat were
defeated as much by their own lack of foresight as the
Camarilla’s attacks.

After the Committee’s cleanup of the city’s political
echelons,  legitimate  businesses  thrived  —  with  the
Camarilla riding their coattails. San Francisco formally
incorporated as a city of some 30,000 people. The City
by  the  Bay  became  reality,  and  the  Inner  Circle
recognized the rule of Prince Jebediah Hawthorne in
the Domain of San Francisco.
PATHS OF IRON

San Francisco continued to grow steadily through the
next  decade,  remaining  a  key  center  of  commerce  for
North  America’  s  entire  West  Coast.  As  gold  mining
dwindled, the discovery of the Comstock Silver Lode in
Nevada sent a new infusion of wealth into San Francisco’s
coffers. Many of the city’s most powerful mining magnates
owned  either  the  Nevada  mines  or  the  machines  to
properly  drill  them,  setting  up  a  continuous  circle  of
wealth. The newfound prosperity further cemented the
Camarilla’ s hold over the city, their only real victory of
any substance in California. It was a bastion of influence
amid a sea of Sabbat and anarch power.

San Francisco’s only limitation was its isolation from
the  rest  of  the  United  States.  Out  on  the  edge  of  the
continent’s westernmost frontier, travel to and from the
City by the Bay  required East Coast ships to circumnavigate
Cape Horn. The building of the Transcontinental Railroad
in  the  1860s  rectified  that  problem  by  connecting  the
Pacific and Central rail lines.

Chinese  immigrant  workers  did  much  of  the  hard
labor  required  to  extend  the  Pacific  Line  through  the
harsh Utah desert. This elicited  jealousy from Caucasian
workers,  who  grumbled  that  the  Chinamen  stole  their
jobs. The government responded by passing “coolie laws”
that penalized the Chinese workers and made it  hard for
them  to  earn  a  living.  It  was  only  part  of  a  prejudice
against Chinese people that simmered and festered beneath
the surface — occasionally erupting into accusations or
even violence.

San Francisco’s Chinatown remained a city-within-
a-city; people mostly kept to themselves, running their
own schools and businesses and generally catering to the
area’s inhabitants. In turn, the city government passed
laws  limiting  “foreign”    ownership  of  property.  It  also
enacted laws taxing foreign (mainly Asian) workers more
heavily, thus protecting jobs for “good Americans.” The
situation suited Chinatown’s few Kuei-jin and shen, since
it  kept  their  havens  secure  from  foreign  devils  and
prevented expatriated Chinese from intermingling with
local Westerners.

25

BLACK BART, THE PLUNDERING PO8

One of the most notorious criminal figures of late
19th century San Francisco made his  debut in August
of 1877. The man who later became known as Black
Bart  stopped  a  Wells-Fargo  stagecoach,  leveled  a
double-barreled shotgun at the driver and uttered his
famous command: “Throw down the box.”  The driver
surrendered the wooden strongbox, after which the
robber  allowed  him  to  leave  unharmed.  The  box
turned up later, empty except for a poem scrawled on
the back of a waybill:

“I’ve labored long and hard for bread —

For honor and for riches —
But on my corns too long you’ve tread,
You fine-haired sons of bitches.”

It was signed “Black Bart, the PO8.”
News of the mysterious Black Bart and his “po8try”
spread quickly, though the robber himself remained
out  of  sight  for  roughly  a  year  afterward.  When  he
finally  resurfaced,  he  robbed  another  stagecoach,
followed by several more. He always worked alone,
apparently traveling on foot through the rough hills
outside  San  Francisco.  Wells-  Fargo  and  the  city
placed a considerable reward of $800 on his head, but
Black Bart remained at large.

Authorities didn’t capture Black Bart until 1883,
when  he  was  wounded  in  a  stagecoach  robbery.
Although he escaped, he left his possessions behind.
Investigators  tracked him through the San Francisco
laundry  that  cleaned  his  clothes,  leading  them  to
Charles Bolton, AKA “Black Bart.”  Bolton confessed
to the robbery, but the courts sentenced him to only
six years in prison. He served a little over four.

At his release, reporters mobbed Bolton, looking to
interview the infamous Black Bart. When asked if he
planned to rob any more stagecoaches, he replied that
he would not commit any further crimes. The questions
continued, until one young reporter asked, ”One final
question. Do you plan to write any more poetry?”

Bolton smiled and said, “Young man, didn’t you

just hear me say I would commit no more crimes?”

Charles  “Black  Bart”  Bolton  left  San  Francisco
heading south. He disappeared shortly thereafter and
was never heard from again.

THE DRAGON THRASHES ITS TAIL

Fire  has  reclaimed  to  civilization  and  cleanliness  the
Chinese ghetto, and no Chinatown will be permitted in the
borders  of  the  city…  it  seems  as  though  a  divine  wisdom
directed the range of the seismic horror and the range of the fire
god. Wisely, the worst was cleared away with the best.

— The Overland Monthly, 1906
On April 18, 1906 at 5:12 AM , Kuei-jin geomancers
sensed a shift in the dragon-lines, a stirring of powerful

26

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

forces — the Earth Dragon was restless, and a tremendous
earthquake struck San Francisco in response . The quake
itself lasted for less than a minute, but it toppled buildings
and buckled streets. Broken gas mains and fallen lamps
ignited fires that swept through the city.

The  local  fire  department  mobilized  almost
immediately,  but  the  earthquake  had  ruptured  all  the
water mains, leaving them to fight the fires with buckets
instead of hoses. They retreated, hoping to contain the
inferno and allow it to burn itself out. That, unfortunately,
did not happen. The fires raged and spread, burning all of
one day and into the next. They consumed some 28,000
buildings, including all of Chinatown.

Despite  both  the  Kuei-jin’s  and  Kindred’s  best
precautions, the fires caught them all by surprise. A few
vampires  perished  in  the  blaze,  unable  to  flee  without
facing sunlight and frenzied by Rötschreck or wave soul.
Retainers helped some Kindred escape from mansions on
Nobility Hill,  while other vampires sought refuge in the
earth  that  had  seemingly  turned  against  the  city.  A
handful remained underground for several nights, fearful
of the heat they felt above their heads. The horror of being
burned  to  kindling  frightened  one  or  two  Kindred  so
greatly that they waited too long and sank into Torpor,
where they lay to this night. Some sires tell their neonate
progeny that on still nights, you can hear them, scratching
at the underside of sidewalks and roads.

The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers  finally created a
firebreak by dynamiting entire city blocks in the western
districts. The blaze lasted for three days, as did the quake’s
aftershocks. When it  was all over, reporter Jack London
wrote in a newspaper dispatch, “the City of San Francisco
is no more.”  The city was devastated, with some 3,000
people dead, 225,000 injured, vast numbers homeless and
$400 million in damage (valued in 1906).

San  Francisco’s  vampire  enclaves  were  in  great
disarray. Worse yet, with the mortal survivors huddled
together for protection and comfort, hunting and feeding
became  exceedingly  difficult.    Forced  to  pick  on  lone
stragglers  and  looters,  many  vampires  turned  on  one
another for vitae, sect be damned. The following weeks
endured  nightly  destructions,  with  the  strongest
eliminating  the  weak  .  During  the  inevitable
reconstruction,  however,  the  Camarilla  sent  scourges
into San Francisco to halt the indiscriminate feeding and
make examples of Kindred who committed diablerie. The
scourges caught and destroyed three Kindred, including
one member of the primogen, but any other culprits either
fled the region or hid their crime expertly.

The surviving Kuei-jin suffered the loss of their havens
as well, and they would have to struggle against gweilo
opposition (both mortal and Kin-jin) to regain it. Bereft
of their sanctuaries , they hid among the mortal refugees
of Chinatown as best they could, taking advantage of the
deaths caused by the disaster to conceal their own feeding.
Some heralded Chinatown’s destruction as a blessing
of  sorts,  and  publicly  hoped  it  would  not  be  rebuilt.

CHAPTER TWO: INTERESTING TIMES

Chinese and Western businessmen, however, planned to
turn Chinatown into a tourist attraction — a unique part
of San Francisco’s heritage that would draw people from
around the world. The plan received the quiet support of
Chinatown’s shen, including Father Li T’ien (see p. 117).
The city could not ignore the potential for prestige
and  income.  Even  Kindred  who  bothered  concerning
themselves with the “Chinatown problem”  believed a
tourist-town  would  eliminate  the  barriers  the  Asian
enclave presented before. What they did not know was
that the Kuei-jin chose to sacrifice their previous security
for the opportunity to hide in plain sight.

In some ways, the fire and reconstruction following the
Great Quake benefited both Cainites and Kuei-jin. With
decades of influence among the wealthiest and most powerful
mortals, the vampires subtly directed the reconstruction to
suit their own needs. The rebuilt mansions on Nob Hill and
the  new  Chinatown’s  mazelike  urban  topography  took
shape under the watchful eyes of the city’ s oldest residents,
with  few  people  the  wiser.  The  destruction  of  so  many
important papers and public records in the fire facilitated
the flood of forged identities and birth certificates. In fact,
a new wave of Chinese citizens known as “ paper sons”
gained  their  citizenship  through  such  fake  documents,
swelling the local Asian population. Vampires “reset the
clock” and established new, “legitimate”  identities that
withstood official scrutiny. The earthquake was a setback,
but it would not keep San Francisco down.

Of cardinal importance to the Kuei-jin was that the
earthquake  revealed  the  shifting  dragon  lines  in  and
around San Francisco. The shaking of the Earth Dragon’s
tail  released  reservoirs  of  Chi  that  the  Demon  People
tapped for their own purposes. They ensured that  the new
Chinatown controlled one such Dragon Nest. This life-
force  filled  an  invigorated  San  Francisco,  thinned  the
Wall between worlds and drew the attention of other shen
as well, who migrated to the city over the years. The Kin-
jin remained largely ignorant of the geomantic implications
of the quake, as the Kuei-jin hoped. Let the barbarians
play at their petty struggles… the Demon People controlled
San Francisco’s true power.
FOR THEIR OWN PROTECTION

After  rebuilding,  San  Francisco  settled  into  a
seemingly quiet existence for  the local Kindred and Kuei-
jin. Anarchists found the City by the Bay less appealing
than  Los  Angeles,  but  this  was  mostly  thanks  to  the
reconstruction  process.  Camarilla  and  Kuei-jin  alike
helped fund or support the city’ s restoration, thus claiming
territory and businesses from the ground up. The Sabbat
and  anarchs,  however,  contributed  little.  Thus,  they
found themselves with no grip on the city whatsoever, be
it socially, politically or financially.

Conflict  between  Kindred  and  Cainite  in  San
Francisco was tame by comparison to domains like New
York or Mexico City. Resultantly, the Camarilla’s reign
over the region grew weak and decadent, raising concerns

27

WHERE THE DEAD OUTNUMBER THE LIVING

Such room to roam in after death!
— Joaquin Miller, speaking of the new graveyards

in Colma

In  1901,  San  Francisco  passed  an  ordinance
banning any burials within the city. Land on the
peninsula  was  simply  too  precious  to  waste  on
cemeteries. In fact, the city fathers encouraged the
relocation of existing graveyards to outside the city,
so that land currently allocated for cemeteries would
be open for development. This need only increased
following  the  1906  earthquake  and  the  city’  s
reconstruction. Many landowners found it lucrative
to move bodies to other plots and sell the land at a
considerable  profit  (or,  sometimes,  to  leave  the
interred bodies and sell the land anyway).

Between  re-interring  the  previously  deceased
and the number of quake-related fatalities, it was a
simple matter for a cart laden with caskets to move
through  San  Francisco’s  streets  unnoticed.  This
allowed the city’s Kindred to go about the business
of rebuilding and relocating with minimum duplicity
during the years immediately before and after the
reconstruction. Disturbing the graveyards also stirred
the  occasional  ghost,  drawing  more  psychics  and
mediums to the area.

Several  new  graveyards  opened  in  the  small
town of Colma. In fact, the “town” consists mostly
of cemeteries, with only a few homes and businesses
for  the  cemetery  attendants  and  other  support
services.  Even  tonight,    Colma’s  deceased  far
outnumber  the  living,  a  situation  that  draws  the
occasional Bone Flower, Giovanni or Samedi.

over  Sabbat  and  anarch  activities  that  local  Kindred
largely  dismissed.  San  Francisco’s  inhabitants  were
confident  in  their  mastery  of  the  night  —  confidence
perhaps justified in the years following the quake, but that
turned to unsupported arrogance as the years passed.

The  city’s  Kuei-jin,  on  the  other  hand,  saw
considerable    activity  in  the  first  decades  of  the  20th
century.  Unrest  in  China  sent  thousands  of  rebellion-
weary refugees across the sea, filling Chinatown’s already
crowded streets. Occasionally,  this deluge of mortals hid
survivors  from  shadow  wars  and  conflicts  within  the
August Courts, fleeing the Middle Kingdom and seeking
shelter in the West. These Kuei-jin — taught the  formal
manners and precise discipline of the Quincunx — were
shocked by the laxity of North America’s kànbujiàn. The
friction between traditionalists and Chinatown’ s undead
inhabitants inevitably degenerated; shadow wars spilled
over into conflicts between the city’s Tongs and associated
criminals during the 1920s and ‘30s.

In December of 1941, the Empire of Japan attacked
the United States Naval Base at Pearl Harbor, drawing

28

the U.S. into World War II. In response, the American
government displaced over a hundred thousand Japanese
(two-thirds of them American citizens) from their homes
to detainment camps in California, Utah and Idaho “for
their  own  protection.”    Many  San  Francisco  gaki  hid
initially, while the army spirited their mortal screens and
protection  elsewhere.  Eventually,  however,  the  gaki
realized that they were imprisoned as well.  They possessed
no freedom of movement, since no individuals of Japanese
descent were supposed to be left behind.

When war workers and low-income families moved
into the housing vacated by Japanese families, the gaki
were forced to relocate. One or two gaki returned to Japan
through the Yellow Springs, but most sought refuge in
Chinatown. This latter lot suffered at the hands of their
Chinese Kuei-jin hosts, who treated the gaki like slaves in
retribution for Japan’ s invasion of the Middle Kingdom.
Eventually, a few gaki escaped into the countryside, waiting
for the matter to resolve. When the displaced Japanese
returned,  they  found  their  homes  and  neighborhood
occupied.  Most resettled elsewhere. Japantown shrank
from 30 blocks to a mere six.

Kuei-jin of Chinese descent capitalized on the Japanese
deportations to eliminate or subjugate many  of the gaki in
San Francisco, deliberately ignoring the shadow war rules
and requirements detailed under the Precepts of the War.
What was the point, after all, since the August Courts
were across the sea and thus could not appoint a ganshezhe
(mediator) to oversee the conflict.

San  Francisco  was  a  pale  reflection  of  the  struggles
transpiring in Nanking and Shanghai, but it was traumatic
nonetheless. The city’s gaki population never truly recovered
from the experience. Any  Kuei-jin of Japanese extraction
faces a difficult existence under the watchful eyes of San
Francisco’s  New  Promise  Mandarinate.  Conversely,  the
Kuei-jin’s actions taught the gaki  they could effectively
play dirty pool in shadow wars, a trick they use to their
advantage against the tradition-bound Mandarinate.

THE GREAT LEAP OUTWARD

As  the  20th  century  drew  to  a  close,  signs    and
portents of an impending storm grew. In San Francisco,
the status quo changed in ways few people anticipated,
making the city a pivotal location in coming events.
THE DRAGON WAKES

In October of 1989, a powerful earthquake struck the
San Francisco Bay Area incurring billions of dollars in
damages and resulting in 63 deaths and numerous injuries.
It thankfully  did not spark the same terrible fires of 1906.
In addition, most of the city’s buildings were constructed
to  resist  earthquakes  (although  some  “quake-proof”
structures failed miserably). The event damaged portions
of the city, however, including the Marina District and
sections of the freeway and Bay Bridge.

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

 To the citizens of San Francisco, the earthquake was
a disaster. To local Kindred it was a nuisance, but also an
opportunity to hide their activities in the resulting chaos
and again influence reconstruction. To the Kuei-jin, it
was something far more. The regional dragon lines shifted
once more. The city’ s presence and continued growth
polluted the wells of Chi in the area, sending out poison
arrows that disturbed the slumbering Earth Dragon. The
city’s  life  force  waned,  and  the  Kin-jin  were  bloated
parasites feeding on its weakening Chi.

  In  the  early  90s,  Jochen  Van  Nuys  was  a  junior
member  of  a  cabal  of  East  Coast  Ventrue,  sent  to  San
Francisco as their envoy. What Van Nuys found was a city
of great wealth and potential ruled by a weak and ineffectual
Prince, who did little to either keep the anarchs in check or
even to enforce the Camarilla’s traditions. He also uncovered
vampires existing in fear of the Prince and his primogen,
squabbling over feeding territory and committing diablerie
against each other in a dog-eat-dog struggle to survive. In
short, he found a city of great potential that was ripe for a
revolution. He decided to provide it.

By 1996, Van Nuys was ready to act. With allies back
east as well as newfound local support, he executed a swift
and masterful coup that deposed Prince Vannevar Thomas
and his few remaining supporters. The Inner Circle was
aware and tacitly approved of Van Nuys’ coup, backing
his claim as the new Prince of San Francisco.

From the very first night he assumed power, Van Nuys
walked  a  thin  line.  He  replaced  Thomas’  weak  and
ineffective leadership with decisiveness and action, but
not so much as to rankle San Francisco’s anarchs or foster
resistance  against his rule. He guided with a firm but light
touch, and San Francisco remained an unusually free and
open city. Ventrue money followed in his wake, and San
Francisco’s  economy  strengthened  while  the  Ventrue’s
coffers grew fatter.
THE TWO-FANG SERPENT PLAN

The  first  stirrings  of  San  Francisco’s  current  woes
began far from California’ s shores, in the August Courts
of the Quincunx. In 1997, two of the five regional capitols
of the August Courts were in foreign hands, with Hong
Kong controlled by the Kin-jin and Shanghai under the
gaki  akuma of Japan. The “bamboo curtain” of Maoist
China  grew  increasingly  tattered.  Western  influences
reverberated throughout the Middle Kingdom, carrying
with them the influence of the Kin-jin. Elders and jina
alike pointed to the impending Sixth Age and demanded
something be done, while the Running Monkeys lived up
to their names and strayed even further from tradition.
The Bamboo Princes, in turn, demanded modernization
and  an  abandonment  of  the  ancient  ways,  practically
courting the Demon Emperor’s arrival.

 Two factions formed within the August Courts, each
advocating  their  own  plan  of  action.  The  Righteous
Foreigner-Vanquishing Crusaders followed Mandarin Hao

CHAPTER TWO: INTERESTING TIMES

Wei-Liang, a cunning Resplendent Crane politician. It
consisted of Resplendent Cranes, Devil-Tiger extremists
and Thrashing Dragon hotheads. They called for a crusade
to sweep the foreign devils from the shores of the Middle
Kingdom and carry the battle to the unrighteous in their
own lands. They proposed the Ash  Plan as a means of
accomplishing  just  that,  which  found  support  among
Wan  Kuei  opportunists  and  those  frustrated  with  the
August Courts’ apparent weakness.

The Harmonious Menders of Broken Fences, led by
Bone Flower elder Jiejie Li, proved more moderate. They
claimed the Middle Kingdom needed to put its own house
in  order  before  beginning  any  crusades  against  the
unrighteous. Corruption and evidence of the Yama Kings
were  rife  in  their  own  domains,  yet  the  Foreigner-
Vanquishing Crusaders would charge off to other lands,
leaving their homes to rot from within. This was foolishness,
the  Fence-Menders  said.  The  Crusaders  countered  by
accusing  their  opponents  of  being  cowards  unwilling  to
take action while the world slid screaming into Hell.

The Menders of Broken Fences offered a compromise
they called the Two-Fang Serpent Plan, which dealt with
both the threats facing the Quincunx at home and abroad.
The Kuei-jin directed the first “fang”  toward securing the
borders of the August Courts and dealing with dangers
close at hand, like the occupations of Shanghai and Hong
Kong.  The  plan’s  second  “fang”  proposed  taking  and
holding a western city to probe the Kin-jin’s strengths and
abilities while establishing a foothold for a later time.

Shadow wars erupted between the two factions, each
struggling  to  win  the  support  of  the  August  Courts.
Finally, the Elders decided Hao Wei-Liang presented the
greatest  danger  to  their  power  and  the  Quincunx’s
traditional ways. They chose the moderates’ plan, with
some  slight  revisions.  The  August  Courts  created  the
Extraordinary Commission on the Rectification of Borders
and appointed Jiejie Li  its Ancestor, with experienced
Devil Tiger General Chiu Bao as her lieutenant and First
Oni. The Courts placed Hao Wei-Liang in command of a
force known as the Glorious Ocean-Crossing Warriors,
and charged him with capturing and pacifying Los Angeles,
under the watchful eye of his rivals. The Ancestors would
see whose approach proved more successful.

In  the  first  days  of  1998,    scouts  for  the  Ocean-
Crossing  Warriors  entered  Los  Angeles,  launching  the
Kuei-jin’s invasion. Initially things went smoothly. Kuei-
jin warriors struck the Kin-jin like a hurricane, sweeping
away  loners  and  small,  independent  gangs  of  anarchs,
while leaving the other Kindred scrambling for information
and protection. By contrast, the Fence-Menders’  efforts
in Shanghai and Hong Kong were slow and costly, both in
terms of resources and the number of Kuei-jin who met
Final  Death.  Hao  Wei-Liang’s  star  was  rising,  to  the
concern of the August Courts’ Ancestors.

In  1999,  however,  a  new  star  arose  and  changed
everything. The red star known as the Eye of the Demon
Emperor  appeared  in  the  heavens;  it  was  believed  an

29

omen of the impending Sixth Age. Organized resistance
spread among Los Angeles’  anarchs, sending Running
Monkeys  and  war-wu  to  their  Final  Deaths  in  greater
numbers. The Righteous Crusaders allied themselves with
the  spirits  of  the  Yin  World  and  the  Yellow  Springs,
preparing a final, massive assault on Los Angeles from the
Spirit Realms. In the midst of the attack, however, a storm
of unprecedented fury struck the Yin World, smashing
Kuei-jin  and  spectral  forces  alike.  The  Kin-jin  pressed
their  advantage  until,  by  summer,  both  sides  were  too
exhausted to continue fighting.

 Meanwhile, the Fence-Menders made considerable
progress in Shanghai while maintaining a stalemate in
Hong Kong. Jiejie Li  also secured the defection of high-
ranking  Tremere  Oliver  Thrace,  providing  the  August
Courts with valuable information. Meanwhile, Hao Wei-
Liang’  s  troops  were  decimated  and  demoralized,  his
assault  a  failure  in  the  eyes  of  his  superiors.  Ancestor
Ch’ang  of  the  Blood  Court  sent  Hao  an  inkstone  and
calligraphic brush as a sign of his judgment. In late 1999,
the  Resplendent  Crane  Mandarin  Hao  met  the  Eye  of
Heaven with honor, leaving the Foreigner-Vanquishing
Crusaders greatly weakened.

The invasion of Los Angeles sent shockwaves through
the Anarch Free State and the Camarilla, which quickly
moved to secure San Diego and San Francisco. Refugees
from  the  fighting  in  LA  sought  shelter  in  Prince  Van
Nuys’    domain.  He  generously  granted  it,  swelling  the
number of local anarchs. The Camarilla’s western princes
strengthened their borders, looking to the Inner Circle for
aid and waiting to see what the Cathayans would do next.
THE NEW PROMISE MANDARINATE

With the Final Death of Hao Wei-Liang, the Ancestors
of the August Courts turned their attentions on Jiejie Li.
Although the Fence-Menders won a considerable victory,
Li knew full well she must now succeed where Hao failed,
or she would follow him into the mouth of Yomi. If she were
killed, the Ancestors could eliminate two powerful rivals
and  still  reclaim  Shanghai  in  the  bargain.  She  didn’  t
intend to allow them that opportunity.

As Li studied the situation, it became clear that  a
direct  assault  was  no  longer  viable.  The  ranks  of  the
Glorious Ocean-Crossing Warriors were severely thinned
and morale was just as depleted. Elements loyal to the
Foreigner-Vanquishing  Crusaders  also  needed  to  be
weeded out and replaced with jina and mandarins loyal to
Li and the Fence-Menders. Li appointed Monkey Trip
Wu ancestor of Los Angeles, with Mandarin Fun Toy of
the  Flatbush  and  Stockton  Posse  as  his  seconds-in-
command.  With that accomplished, she and Chiu Bao
went to Los Angeles to oversee matters directly.

 The new Kuei-jin strategy used a weapon from the
arsenal of Western colonialism: divide and conquer. The
Cathayans approached some of the prominent surviving
anarch leaders and offered them a deal: their cooperation
in exchange for aid in wiping out their closest rivals. It

30

only took the agreement of a few to break the back of the
anarch resistance and drive most of the surviving rebels
out of the city. The Kuei-jin dubbed their alliance the
“New Promise Mandarinate” and created a power structure
that included both Wan Kuei and Kin-jin.

Jiejie Li  presented this as a victory to the August Courts.
Not only were the Kin-jin under control, but the Kuei-jin
could civilize and teach them proper behavior, making them
a useful resource in the coming struggle against the Sixth Age
rather than chaff thrown to the winds.

To  the  Kindred  of  Los  Angeles,  the  Mandarinate
presented  itself  not  as  another  process  towards
“enlightenment”  or  an  egalitarian  society,  but  as  the
fruition  of  those  pursuits.  It  promised  to  upend  the
Camarilla’s status quo and offer advancement based on
merit  and  ability  rather  than  generation  or  diablerie.
This  strategy  worked,  leaving  The  Kuei-jin  and  their
allies in control of Los Angeles. The Camarilla knew it
would  be  a  matter  of  time  before  the  New  Promise
Mandarinate turned its attention elsewhere along North
America’s Pacific Coast.
AN HONORABLE AGREEMENT

To forestall the Mandarinate’s expansion, the Inner
Circle appointed Justicar Madame Guil to deal with “the
Cathayan  problem.”  Of  course  the  Camarilla’  s  idea  of
confronting  the  situation  was  to  sue  for  peace  with  the
Cathayan invaders and cede Los Angeles to them. Hopefully
this would keep them contained while the Camarilla dealt
with a more pressing threat in the Sabbat. Theoretically,
the  justicar’s  presence  would  also  remind  the  western
princes where their loyalties lay and help keep other cities
from defecting to the New Promise Mandarinate.

Madame Guil and her entourage traveled across North
America  from  Boston  to  San  Francisco,  dealing  with
several minor matters along the way and “marching out
the  flag”  to  rally  the  Camarilla’  s  western  holdings.
Unfortunately, the local princes realized the Camarilla
was essentially leaving them to the mercy of not just the
Sabbat but also the Cathayans.

Once Guil established herself in San Francisco with
Jochen Van Nuys unable to do anything save cooperate,
negotiations with the New Promise Mandarinate began
in earnest. To the Camarilla’ s surprise, the Cathayans
eagerly  discussed  terms  and  welcomed  the  offer  of  a
settlement.  Negotiations  took  place  throughout  2000,
with meetings alternating between Los Angeles and San
Francisco. Negotiators sent flurries of messages back to
their superiors in the Camarilla and the Quincunx every
step of the way, finally resulting in an acceptable agreement
for  both  sides.  The  Kindred  saved  face  by  recognizing
Kuei-jin  authority  in  Asian  matters  and  “approving”
their recovery of the renegade domain of Los Angeles,
allowing them to retain it so long as they kept “good and
reasonable order” in the city. The Camarilla also agreed to
compensate the Cathayans for the costs they incurred in
“recovering” Los Angeles from the anarchs.

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

In short, the Camarilla capitulated, agreed to let the
Cathayans keep what they’ d stolen and offered them a
bribe in hopes they wouldn’t plunder any more territory.
The  Kuei-jin  willingly  allowed  the  Kin-jin  to  ascribe
whatever face they wanted on the compromise, since it
provided  the  Quincunx  with  significant  gains  —  and
even Western barbarians should be allowed to save face.
The  deal  was  set,  but  there  was  something  on  which
neither side had counted.
THE WHEEL TURNS

Regardless of the Camarilla’s intentions, the western
princes  were  not  about  to  accept  the  Inner  Circle’  s
betrayal to Cathayans. Neither were the surviving anarchs
driven from Los Angeles by the invaders. In the anarchs,
the princes found the perfect tool. They would use one
problem to solve another and, regardless the outcome,
they  would  come  out  ahead.  The  plan  called  for  the
anarchs  to  execute  a  coup  in  San  Francisco  as  the
Camarilla’s  delicate  negotiations  came  to  a  close,
eliminating both the Eastern and Western envoys.  Once
in control of the city, the anarchs could raise a force to
move south and re-take Los Angeles with the backing of
the western princes.

 If the anarchs succeeded, they would eliminate or at
least weaken the Cathayan threat and owe their success to
their former political enemies. If they failed,  the anarchs
would be eliminated and the Camarilla would be forced
into conflict with the so-called New Promise Mandarinate
instead  of  suing  for  peace.  Even  if  the  Inner  Circle
discovered the culprits behind the coup, they would still
need support to deal with the Cathayans (as well as the
Sabbat). Any retribution would be minor at best and long
in coming, even in the worst case scenario.

The  details  of  the  meeting  between  Kindred  and
Kuei-jin  representatives  on  San  Francisco’s  Telegraph
Hill are hazy, but what remains clear is that a well-armed
force of anarchs attacked the meeting site. Many vampires
met their Final Death that night with many more destroyed
in  the  following  hours.  Accusations  of  betrayal  and
collaboration  with  the  anarchs  flew  on  both  sides,  as
Prince  Van  Nuys  watched  his  hopes  of  becoming  the
Camarilla’s peacemaker crumble.
THE TAKING OF SAN FRANCISCO

The August Courts graciously accepted the Camarilla’s
tribute,  then  sent  “envoys”  and  “peacekeepers”  to  San
Francisco to ensure the safety of their own kind. In short
order, the city’s Tremere and Toreador primogen met their
Final Deaths at the hands of Kuei-jin assassins. The Wan
Kuei swept into San Francisco like a black wind. It seemed
nothing could stand before them. They seized control of the
city’s prime areas, then opened “negotiations” with Prince
Van Nuys and his surviving primogen.

Although couched in diplomacy, the Kuei-jin made it
clear that the Kindred would be relocated to specific areas
of San Francisco and  allowed to exist under the watchful

CHAPTER TWO: INTERESTING TIMES

31

eye of the New Promise Mandarinate. Those who showed
“merit” (i.e., loyalty to the new order) had the potential for
advancement,  while  any  threats  would  meet  with  swift
retribution.  The  local  Kindred  had  little  choice;  most
complied with the invaders’ terms and moved their havens
and strongholds to Cathayan-appointed areas.

After Van Nuys’ failure to hold the city, the Inner
Circle stated they needed his diplomatic skills to “continue
negotiations”  with the Cathayans. They relieved him of
his duties as prince, conferring that title on Sara Anne
Winder,  an  ambitious  and  cunning  Ventrue  tactician
charged with eventually re-taking the city.

In turn, the New Promise Mandarinate named Van
Nuys Minister of the Office of Western Affairs, making
him their official representative and mouthpiece for dealing
with San Francisco’ s Kin-jin population. In their view,
this places Van Nuys above Winder in the city’s hierarchy,
even if many within the Camarilla don’t see it that way.
It also secures the ousted Van Nuys’ loyalty for the New
Promise Mandarinate.

Having taken the city, of course, the Fence-Menders
now face the challenge of holding both Los Angeles and
San  Francisco  while  dealing  with  affairs  at  home.  To
worsen matters, the Quincunx expects them to expand

their holdings in North America — against the better
judgement of Jiejie Li  and her advisors. The Two-Fang
Serpent Plan is something of a victim of its own success,
leaving  the  Kuei-jin  stretched  thin  across  California’s
coast. The Kindred have regrouped from their early defeats,
and the Camarilla now makes the Cathayans a greater
priority  than  before.  Robbed  of  the  chance  to  gather
intelligence while maintaining the element of surprise,
the  New  Promise  Mandarinate  faces  the  prospect  of
organized  resistance  and  an  inevitable  Camarilla
counterattack while they fortify their holdings.

In San Francisco, these  two powerful factions dance
a delicate and dangerous diplomatic tango, each carefully
hiding  its  weaknesses  while  ferreting  out  the  enemy’s
vulnerabilities and making plans for the future. On the
city’ s fog-shrouded streets, Kuei-jin and Kindred encounter
each other almost nightly, sometimes slipping past one
another  in  the  mist  with  the  barest  acknowledgment,
other times exploding into violence that may eventually
consume the city. As the pressure grows, each side can’ t
help but reflect upon the prophecies of the End Times,
watching the signs manifest all around them and wondering
if hope still exists.

32

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

CHAPTER THREE: UTOPIA LOST

33

Chapter Three:
Utopia Lost

We feel this claim is just and proper, and that this land should
rightfully be granted  to us for as long as the rivers run and the sun shall
shine. We hold the rock!

— from “The Alcatraz Proclamation to the Great White

Father and his People,” November 1969.

STEALING PARADISE

The days of hippies, love-ins, Kool-Aid acid tests and
upscale Bohemian hegemony are a thing of the past for San
Francisco’s residents. Even without the helpful assistance of
the Kindred and Kuei-jin, San Francisco is being eaten alive
from the inside by the cancer of its own runaway success.
Romanticized  notions  portray  the    City  by  the  Bay  as  a
peaceful haven for artists, activists, gay people, hippies and
idealist bohemians of all stripes. While that may have been
true as recently as a decade ago, it isn’t accurate any longer.
The soft-focus love-fest of the ‘60s and ‘70s fell to an
Internet-driven  economic  boom  of  unprecedented
proportions. Millionaires, lots of them, want to live in San
Francisco, close to the rampantly lucrative technological
innovations of Silicon Valley, but a safe distance from the
hardcore banality of corporate life in nearby San  Jose.

Market  dynamics  sent  housing  costs  skyrocketing;
anyone not making a six-figure salary  — including the
artists, idealists and bohemians who gave the city its unique
character in the first place — fled. The dot.com millionaires
and trust fund babies infesting San Francisco can afford to

live there, but nobody else can pay three thousand dollars
a month for a studio apartment — least of all the activists,
musicians, artists and non-profit crusaders.

Fully  one  third  of  the  investment  capital  in  the
United  States  is  in  the  Bay  Area.  The  Camarilla,
particularly the Ventrue, were more than happy to nudge
whatever spoils they could into their own coffers. The
Blue Bloods’ financiers literally made billions  of dollars in
the nineties, bankrolling in part the retaking of New York
City. That they alienated the other Camarilla clans in
doing so never bothered them, until scores of Kindred met
Final Death at the hands of strange Asian invaders.

In the eyes of the Kindred, the Kuei-jin invasion was
more than a brazen incursion by upstart exotics; it was a
major blow to the Ventrue’s financial and banking empire,
and by extension, to that of the Camarilla.

Had  San  Francisco  been  any  other  city  in  Western
North America, the Camarilla would simply pull out, regroup
and decide after much debate what to do next. Given San
Francisco’s vast (and much-needed) wealth, however,  and
the  crucial  part  it  plays  in  the  fields  of  computers,
biotechnology and finance, that was not an option.

34

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

For that reason and that reason alone, the Camarilla
willingly pays tribute to a foreign power in exchange for
the right to remain in the city while the two iron out the
“logistics of Kuei-jin occupation.”  Kindred and Kuei-jin
both call San Francisco home now with varying degrees of
comfort, but the slapdash patchwork of petty fiefdoms,
domains, demilitarized zones, “Munificent Transitioning
Sectors” and no man’ s lands wears on everyone’s nerves.
Unfortunately,  no  one  could  come  up  with  a  better
arrangement.  There  appears  to  be  one  thing  and  one
thing alone that Kindred and Kuei-jin both fully agree on:
the status quo  cannot continue much longer.
SAN FRANCISCO
GEOGRAPHY OVERVIEW

San Francisco is located on the northern tip of the
San Francisco peninsula. North across the Golden Gate
Bridge is wealthy Marin County and Napa Valley wine

country.  Eastward  across  the  Bay  Bridge  lies    Oakland
with Berkeley to its north. To the south is a collection of
upscale suburban communities and the city of San Jose.
San Francisco, commonly called “The City” by most
residents of central and northern California, comprises a
myriad of distinct neighborhoods in a remarkably small
geographic area. This is due in part to the many steep hills
within  San  Francisco  city  limits,  creating  natural
boundaries between districts. More accurately, however,
the distinct neighborhoods stem from the innumerable
ethnic communities settled in the region.

Of  American  cities,  only  New  York  has  a  greater
population  density.  It  is  San  Francisco’s  compacted
communities that allow it to support its many clubs, bars,
restaurants and other businesses. It also means that for a city
of its small geographic area, San Francisco presents a rich
buffet of blood and Chi to its nocturnal residents. A good
thing, too, because the city’ s current vampire population
is  precariously  high.  Health  workers,  sensitized  by  the

CHAPTER THREE: UTOPIA LOST

AIDS crisis to look for odd trends in pathology, will  notice
a  significant  increase  in  the  number  of  patients  with
symptoms of anemia, particularly in certain neighborhoods.
Camarilla  Prince  Sara  Winder  currently  pressures
vampires under her jurisdiction to spread feeding as widely
as possible, as well as to feed lightly from a single individual
in order to keep the city’ s vampires unnoticed. Some take
this  edict  as  sanction  to  hunt  beyond  the  Munificent
Transitioning Sectors, however, resulting in growing friction
with the local Kuei-jin. Luckily, local tourism is a major
industry in San Francisco,  while the city is also home to a
virtual army of homeless. These transient vessels constitute
a large percentage of the city’s population at any one time,
so it only requires a little effort to hide one’ s feeding habits
while still indulging in vita extravagantly. The Kuei-jin
also learned to maintain “a Masquerade.”

Even Chinatown, for all its similarities to the Middle
Kingdom,  is  unmistakably  part  of  an  American  city;
respect for the shen is not a value that survived the test of
time and distance, though it’ s one the Kuei-jin hope to
revive.  For  the  time  being,  however,  the  three  ruling
mandarins,  known  as  the  Cloud  Mandarins,  enforce
principles of conduct for the Kuei-jin. Once the Quincunx
chooses San Francisco’ s ancestor, he or she will codify the
principles of conduct into a formal set of rules. Until then,
the  Kuei-jin  “Masquerade”    demands  the  following  on
pain of punishment (administered by the Cloud Mandarins
and ranging from censure to facing the Eye of Heaven):
1) The Cloud Mandarins alone may assign usage of
Scarlet Screens and mortals as proxy. Currently, the New
Promise Mandarinate needs to appear unified, which means
no Shadow Wars over resources — mortal or otherwise.

2)  Avoid  killing  mortals  of  Asian  extraction,  which
essentially amounts to “don’t piss in your own watering hole.”
3) Do not reveal your true nature to any mortal unless that

mortal receives the Mandarinate’s sanction as trustworthy.

4)  Avoid  contact  with  the  Kin-jin  outside  of  your
duties. If confronted or offended by Western vampires,
avenge your honor short of their destruction. Their Final
Deaths serve no purpose at this moment.

The  nocturnal  population  is  relatively  spread  out
throughout  the  city,  but  the  Kuei-jin,  as  the  party  in
power, dictates where each camp of vampires may settle.
THE KUEI-JIN

The Kuei-jin of the Quincunx, while technically free
to claim any portion of the New Promise Mandarinate as
their  own,  chose  to  assume  full  control  of  the  city’  s
prosperous northeast quadrant. They claim Chinatown,
the Financial District, North Beach, Nob Hill, Russian
Hill, Telegraph Hill and tourist-haven Fisherman’ s Wharf
(essentially the prime neighborhoods) as theirs. This is
where  the  money  and  Chi  flow  most  abundantly.  The
Camarilla  paid  tribute  to  the  Quincunx  in  hopes  of
gaining access to the Financial District, but so far only
Jochen  Van  Nuys  and  a  small  army  of  Ventrue  ghouls
carry out business there with any ease.

35

THE CAMARILLA

The  Quincunx  “temporarily”  relegates  the  city’s
Camarilla  Kindred  to  strictly  delineated  neighborhoods
called, euphemistically enough, Munificent Transitioning
Sectors. This includes Pacific Heights and Castro Street.
Quincunx representatives claim that once the New Promise
Mandarinate’ s new masters settle in, they will allow local
Kindred to make their havens anywhere in the city. None
of  the  local  Camarilla  Kindred,  however,  give  that  lie
enough credence to even hope it’s true. The Kuei-jin’ s
Tongs and Scarlet Screens watch for Kindred who leave
their assigned sector, but with such thin populations on
both sides, it’s not difficult for Kindred to break the rules if
they really try. They must be ready, however,  to accept the
consequences should the Quincunx catch them.

Essentially from its founding, San Francisco has been
a Camarilla city. Since the mid-19th century, the Camarilla
power structure in America — largely dominated by Ventrue
operating from New England —  kept a tight grip on both
San Francisco and the large quantities of money and clout
flowing through America’s most civilized western city. The
Camarilla ensured other sects never established a significant
foothold in San Francisco, keeping the struggle for the city
to  a  minimum.  Unfortunately,  that  leeway  and  security
made  local  Kindred  decadent,  weak  and  unprepared,
allowing the Kuei-jin presence to grow as quickly as it did.
By the time the sybaritic Toreador, the greedy Ventrue and
the  chantry-bound  Tremere  noticed  powerful  Asian
vampires had infested their city, it was too late.

Key  assassinations  by  the  Kuei-jin  and  the  poorly
timed defection of the Gangrel collapsed the Camarilla’ s
structure in San Francisco like a house of cards. The local
Brujah  also  never  had  a  substantial  presence  in  San
Francisco  proper.  Those  not  fighting  in  L.A.  with  the
anarchs,  including  San  Francisco’  s  Brujah  primogen,
moved across the bay to Oakland and Berkeley. Numerous
Kindred left for other Camarilla cities,  including many of
the fair-weathered Toreador; most found their way to San
Diego, where Prince Tara welcomed them. Most Ventrue,
however,  had  devoted  significant  investment    in  San
Francisco  and  remained  behind,  as  did  the  Tremere
assigned  to  the  San  Francisco  Chantry.  They,  and  the
handful of other Camarilla Kindred,  avoided complete
expulsion  or  destruction  at  the  hands  of  the  invading
Kuei-jin  only  by  paying  the  enormous  three  hundred
million dollar tribute to the Quincunx.

What the Kin-jin purchased with their tribute, however,
was not what they thought they were buying. At the time
of the payment, Prince Jochen Van Nuys claimed that once
the tribute had been paid,  Western Kindred could freely
roam the city (or “the Mandarinate” as he called it) as they
always done, only with a bit more… supervision. What the
Kindred  actually  purchased    were,  in  effect,  large  and
carefully monitored internment camps supervised by Kuei-
jin guards and inspection teams who insisted on knowing
the location of every Kindred haven in the city.

36

After paying tribute to the Quincunx, the biggest insult
to the Camarilla was the discovery that the Financial District
was  not  open  to  the  Ventrue  and  would  not  be  for  the
foreseeable future. The Ventrue must monitor their business
empires from afar through ghoul intermediaries,  while the
Kuei-jin forge direct inroads with their own Scarlet Screens.
 THE GAKI

The gaki ensconce themselves in Japan Center, much
to  the  dismay  of  the  Quincunx.    While  the  Japanese
vampires resent and deeply dislike the Quincunx (owing to
years of both overt and covert warfare between the two
factions), they still acknowledge Chinatown as the seat of
Kuei-jin authority in San Francisco. The Quincunx, for its
part, must tolerate the Azure Dragon Kuei-jin because it
needs them for reinforcements — and call on them it does,
with increasing frequency. This gives the Japanese Wan
Kuei insights into the New Promise Mandarinate’s growing
instability… insights they eagerly exploit at every  turn.

The Quincunx knows better than to invest the same
degree of trust in the gaki as they do their own members.
What they don’t know is that the gaki  are far less reticent
than the arrogant Quincunx about interacting with local
Kindred.  Many  are  forging  alliances  their  Chinese
counterparts would find horrifying as well as seditious.

While many gaki feel sympathetic to Kin-jin concerns
(they’  ve  been  victimized  by  Quincunx  arrogance  for
centuries), those sentiments are developing into a grudging
camaraderie. Japan Center and the few small neighborhoods
controlled by the gaki , while not openly hospitable, are
non-hostile to Kindred passing through. Amusingly, only a
handful of Kindred suspect potential allies exist amidst the
sea of invaders, but more will learn with time. The gaki  are
a resource the Camarilla hasn’t discovered yet.
NON-CAMARILLA VAMPIRES

Technically,  the  Quincunx  declares  all  of  San
Francisco under the New Promise Mandarinate’s aegis,
and for the most part, they’re right. The only area free of
Kuei-jin  control,  however,  is  the  northwest  quadrant.
The  city’  s  major  parks,  as  well  as  Richmond  district
between them, are as free of Kuei-jin as two marauding
Gangrel can make them.

The Richmond district, along with the Presidio, Golden
Gate Park, Lincoln Park and —  to a lesser degree — Harding
Park, are relatively open territory for any Kindred willing or
desperate enough to escape the assigned sectors and  maintain
the Masquerade. The Kuei-jin still contest the region, but
have little “manpower” to handle the problem properly. The
Gangrel responsible for this self-appointed free zone maintain
vestigial connections to both the anarch movement and the
Camarilla,  but  they  possess  no  tolerance  for  the  Sabbat
(admittedly a lesser concern these days).

 Non-Camarilla Kindred are in short supply in San
Francisco,  most  having  been  destroyed  in  the  crossfire
between the Quincunx and the Camarilla or forced out of
the city. Fearing for their unlives, many anarchs have cast

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

their lot with the Camarilla, at least until the Kuei-jin
withdraw.  The  Sabbat,  on  the  other  hand,  maintain  a
token presence in the city, which they hope is enough to
throw a wrench into the already beleaguered Quincunx
and the Camarilla peace process. The Sabbat hope  a full-
scale war erupts between the two giants, allowing them to
clean up. Few Sabbat believe this might actually happen,
but at the very least, San Francisco is still a hell of a lot
more fun than Mexico City.

Most  non-Camarilla  Kindred  live  in  either  the
Western Addition, the Tenderloin, or the city’ s southern-
most regions — those neighborhoods most San Franciscans
conveniently ignore as part of their “community.” These
areas  constitute  no  man’  s  lands  where  the  Kuei-jin
maintain  little  interest  in  controlling  them  (and  thus
maintain  minimal  presence),  but  enough  to  consider
them off-limits for Kindred (just to hamper their feeding
options).  The Sabbat understands well that hiding where
others can’t look is only one way of hiding, while hiding
where others prefer not looking is another time-proven
technique that is effective against arrogant enemies. This
is  traditionally  the  Ventrue,  but  now  it  more  than
adequately applies to the Quincunx invaders as well.
THE MUNIFICENT TRANSITIONING SECTORS

  Shortly  after  the  Camarilla  paid  tribute  to  the
Quincunx (what some call “the most expensive rent in
San Francisco”), the August Courts announced it needed
to “temporarily” relocate the city’ s Kindred to several
predetermined and carefully delineated neighborhoods.
The Cathayans claim Kindred will receive their old
privileges back once the city fully transitions into the New
Promise  Mandarinate.  Happily,  the  Quincunx  allows
Kindred to remain in San Francisco during the change.
During the process, however, Kindred must feed and move
their havens into small and carefully defined sections of the
city.  The  Kuei-jin  call  these  “Munificent  Transitioning
Sectors.”  They  are  “munificent”  because  the  Quincunx
feels it shows great compassion and restraint toward the
barbarian Kin-jin by letting them stay in the New Promise
Mandarinate. They are “transitioning sectors”  because the
Kuei-jin claim Kindred will remain there only for the time
it takes to finish transforming the Camarilla city of San
Francisco into the New Promise Mandarinate. The Kindred
find  the  Cathayans’    terminology  long-winded  and
ridiculously euphemistic. They refer to them as the M-T
Sectors or simply “the Empties.”

By all appearances, the Kuei-jin explicitly requested
only that the Kindred relocate their havens and conduct
the majority of their feeding within the M-T Sectors —
ostensibly to allow the Kuei-jin space and relative privacy
while  they  assume  residency  as  the  city’s  new  masters.
Privately, however, many Kindred wonder if the Kuei-jin
take their lessons from the rape of Nanking —  corralling
the enemy to simplify their destruction.

The Quincunx retains the right to reassign Kindred
from one M-T Sector to another. It uses this power to

CHAPTER THREE: UTOPIA LOST

extend favor or disfavor to Kindred according to “merit,”
or the degree of cooperation a vampire willingly offers the
new regime. The Quincunx relocated former Prince Jochen
Van Nuys, for example, to the Pacific Heights M-T Sector
to  reward  his  dedication  to  ensuring  the  New  Promise
Mandarinate’ s success. Current Prince Sara Anne Winder,
however, was conspicuously slighted by the Quincunx,
who noticed their takeover became significantly harder
after she replaced Van Nuys. They assigned her to one of
the less prestigious sectors, the Castro.

 It became obvious what the Quincunx really intended
with the M-T Sectors when Kindred who strayed from
designated neighborhoods vanished. The Kuei-jin never
explicitly forbade Kindred from passing through any city
sector;  in  practice,  however,  Western  vampires  who
venture from their assigned areas do so at personal risk.
The Quincunx punishes Kindred with a reputation for
traveling  outside  their  own  M-T  neighborhoods  too
frequently by reassigning  them to less desirable sectors,
interrogating  them,  torturing  them  or  sending  a wu  of
Kuei-jin  (or  assembly  of  Tong  members  wielding
incendiary round shotguns) after them.

The Quincunx insists on knowing the whereabouts of
every Kindred haven in the city, and they perform frequent
random inspections to ensure the vampire hasn’ t moved.
The Mandarinate decrees immediate destruction for any
Kindred  who  changes  havens  without  its  express
permission. It is this and this alone keeping Kindred from
establishing havens wherever they wish, regardless of the
Kuei-jin’s M-T Sector assignments. Those Kindred who
dislike  betraying  their  haven’s  location  are  welcome,

37

even encouraged, to leave. The Quincunx is always happy
to see the vampire population shift in their favor.

 Two clans notorious for straying outside their assigned
sectors frequently and with near impunity are the Nosferatu
and the Gangrel. The Nosferatu’s advantage lies in their
unrivaled hold over San Francisco’ s subterranean domains
(sewers, subway tunnels and forgotten passages), allowing
them  access  across  the  city  under  everyone’s  noses.
Conversely,  the  Gangrel  care  little  for  the  Camarilla’s
position in San Francisco or the Kuei-jin presence and go
where they please. Members of both clans, consequently,
possess a certain prestige with the local Camarilla that
they don’ t possess elsewhere. The result is a slow influx of
vampires  from  both  clans,  bolstering  the  Camarilla’s
position in the case of the Nosferatu.

Of course, entering San Francisco is another matter.
The  Kuei-jin  use  Scarlet  Screens  working  at  the  Port
Authority  and  at  bus  and  train  terminals  to  monitor
incoming  traffic  and  packages  and    track  suspected
vampires if necessary (the pale skin and predatory manner
are two telltale clues). That doesn’ t even mention Scarlet
Screen  Tongs  who  drive  the  highways  and  bridges
throughout the day (and night), watching for unmarked
vans or tinted-windows on cars. These watchdogs make
entry  into  San  Francisco  difficult,  and  one  phone  call
from them is enough to bring in the dreaded “compliance
supervisors” (a Kuei-jin squad of enforcers).

 There are five M-T Sectors in all, (Castro Street and
Noe Valley, SoMa, Pacific Heights, Bayview and Sunset)
and the mood of each is radically different from the others.
Perhaps most astonishing is that one small city like San

Munificent

Transitioning Sector Map

38

Francisco holds such a disparate collection of neighborhoods,
which range from sheer luxury, comfort and wealth to the
most wretched, polluted and despair-inducing locales.

In some ways, the differences between the Empties are
moot; they are all Kindred holding pens. The best are gilded
cages while the worst border on penitentiaries. The well-
connected white-collar  criminal plays out his sentence in
minimum security with golf courses, televisions and leaving
privileges, while  the more problematic violent street offender
is locked in solitary, given no indulgences, and eventually
disappears from the minds and hearts of society. Putting this
in context to the Empties, the primogen, low-generation
Kindred,  assimilationists,  turncoats  and  supporters  of  the
New Promise Mandarinate receive the posh assignments. It
is they who exist and feed in Pacific Heights or South of
Market (SoMa), while the Quincunx relegates the weak-
blooded, problematic and no-status vampires to less desirable
sectors, the worst of which is Bayview.

Immediately  following  the  Camarilla’s  tribute  to  the
Quincunx, the city’s Kindred were strangely docile, their
main representatives still in shock. That tractability fades
rapidly, however, and the Kindred press the Kuei-jin more
frequently  and  more  aggressively.  The  New  Promise
Mandarinate responded by cracking down harshly on Kindred

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

caught outside their assigned sectors. The Cathayans possess
an amazing array of Disciplines that Kindred are only now
becoming acquainted with (abilities that make them fearsome
combatants). Only the strongest Kindred willingly risk capture
by  a  cadre  of  Kuei-jin  “compliance  supervisors”    (called
wardens by most Kindred), but from time to time a low-
generation  vampire  leaves  her  assigned  sector  and  hunts
elsewhere. Fights between Kindred and cadres of Kuei-jin
quickly become the stuff of rumors and tall tales regardless
the outcome (a fact the Quincunx resents because it motivates
powerful Kindred to test  its limits).

The Kuei-jin issue warnings to Kindred of status who
violate the Mandarinate’ s edict. For most other vampires,
however, the Quincunx will attack them, report them to the
Kindred  in  power  or,  for  repeat  offenders,  destroy  them.
Some Kindred of prestige flout this policy with impunity.  In
particular, Mirko Mirkonen (p. 108) harasses the occupying
Kuei-jin if they venture into any of the local parks. He helps
make  the  parks  de  facto  Kindred  territory,  although  the
Quincunx puts increasing pressure on the Camarilla to rein
in the old Gangrel. The Camarilla claims it can do nothing
since  the Gangrel left the sect, labeling Mirkonen a renegade
while secretly applauding his efforts. Wildcards like Mirkonen
enrage the Quincunx while simultaneously troubling and
delighting the powers that be among the Camarilla.

CHAPTER THREE: UTOPIA LOST

 In the eyes of the Camarilla, all Kindred supporting the
New  Promise  Mandarinate  (and  therefore  the  Cathayan
presence) enough to earn havens in the Pacific Heights M-
T Sector are suspect. Whether or not they actually collaborate
with the Kuei-jin is almost moot. It is not behavior that is
objectionable, but the appearance of impropriety.

Likewise, many Kindred in the upscale Empties wonder
what  unnecessarily  antagonistic  tactics  their  brethren
committed for the Kuei-jin to relegate them to the worst M-
T Sectors. This kind of thinking creates a silent barrier of
suspicion between different Empties, making it subtly harder
for the Camarilla to work with any degree of real cohesiveness.
The Kuei-jin work hard to reinforce this phenomenon
as a means of keeping the Kin-jin scattered. It is effective
in  preventing  young  vampires  from  fostering  alliances,
but  elders  familiar  with  the  nuances  of  the  Jyhad    are
skilled manipulators themselves. The Quincunx may be
able to lead neonates by the nose, but the thin-blooded
rabble isn’t the threat the Kuei-jin should worry about.
 The greatest danger to experienced Kindred is the
appeal of working with (and possibly manipulating) the
Kuei-jin. Some Western vampires find they have much in
common with their Asian counterparts, which fosters an
awkward sense of solidarity. The fraternization between
the  Quincunx  and  the  Camarilla  makes  for  hesitant
alliances between their members. Certain Kuei-jin and
Kindred alike  find their hostilities turning into mutual
tolerance  and,  in  rare  moments,  grudging  respect.  Of
course the danger in this is that predators only cooperate
when they benefit from the exchange, and the undead are
not known for their altruism. Cooperation is  just one tool
in an arsenal of political murder; betrayal is another.
THE CATHAYAN FREE ZONE

The Camarilla’s Inner Circle privately acknowledges that
it  was  too  slow  in  dealing  with  San  Francisco’s  Cathayan
incursions. After the first skirmishes between Kindred and
Cathayan, the Camarilla simply raised an eyebrow at this new
peculiarity and went on with business as usual. New York was
of  greater  concern  at  the  time,    given  the  already-spent
investment in retaking that city. Even after a few irritating
anarchs  and  insignificant  high  generation  vampires  went
missing,  the  Inner  Circle  overlooked  the  situation  as
unimportant. Only after militant Kuei-jin assassinated both
the  Tremere  and  Malkavian  primogen  did  the  Camarilla
acknowledge they had yet another war on their hands. By
then, of course, it was too late.

Since  the  Kuei-jin  occupation  of  San  Francisco,
however, the Camarilla treats “the Cathayan problem”
with the attention it deserves. The Ventrue, driven by
Prince Sara Anne Winder, launched a full-bore multi-
phase  crusade  to  create  a  Cathayan  Free  Zone  (CFZ)
around  San  Francisco.  Note:    Because  the  first  three
phases of the endeavor are still active, the characters may
still  involve  themselves  with  the  various  steps,  or  the
Storyteller may launch the initiative during the chronicle,
allowing the characters full participation from the get-go.

39

For  phase  one  of  that  program,  the  Ventrue  grant  all
Kindred (particularly Gangrel) exceptionally generous feeding
privileges in all West Coast Camarilla domains for a period of
one year for every Kuei-jin they capture or kill in the relatively
wild areas around San Francisco (in effect, it is a Kindred
version of Pope Urban II’ s indulgences to the first Crusaders).
Furthermore, the Ventrue extend those same generous feeding
privileges to all Kindred of Asian extraction who moved to
San Francisco. This is both a means of creating confusion for
the  invading  Kuei-jin  and  a  way  of  attracting  a  body  of
potential undercover agents working for the Camarilla.

For phase two, Nosferatu — or anyone with transportation
influence — watch the ferry terminals at night and monitor
boat rentals for Cathayans trying to leave the city by water.
While not as effective as the Tremere’ s approach (detailed
below),  the  Sewer  Rats  are  relatively  successful,  garnering
significant prestige and prime feeding grounds for their efforts.
The Tremere, in phase three, wage what is the most
effective campaign yet on behalf of the CFZ by warding
the bridges and the BART tunnel out of San  Francisco
with  a  series  of  lethal  Wards  versus  Cathayans.  While
they claim to do this at the behest of the Ventrue, the
wards were largely created at the command of Meerlinda
herself  in  retaliation  for  the  1998  assassination  of  the
Tremere primogen, a favored pupil and sycophant of hers.
The wards reduce any Kuei-jin traveling across the Golden
Gate Bridge, the Bay Bridge or the San Mateo Bridge to dust
and charred bones before they even reach the halfway point.
The BART tunnel leading out of San Francisco also has wards
in place, but the Tremere rigged these into the power grid so
that when a Kuei-jin trips a ward, the train’s power “flickers.”
The resulting second-long blackout prevents the passengers
from seeing the Kuei-jin destroyed and interrupts the  video
feeds from potential security cameras. Of course some members
of  the  Camarilla  consider  such  actions  a  betrayal  of  the
Masquerade, but desperate times call for desperate measures.
Additionally, the Ventrue and Toreador continually divest
much of their media and police resources into killing news
stories concerning these “freakish accidents.”

The  Tremere  and  Camarilla  know  of  the  wards’
limitations. They only prevent Cathayans from leaving or
entering San Francisco via car and subway, and they must be
recast every so often, creating large enough holes for Kuei-jin
to escape through unscathed on the occasion. Unbeknownst
to the Camarilla, however, the Kuei-jin consulted with the
Hong Kong Tremere defector Oliver Thrace and his childer
Wan Zhu, and circumvented the wards. Thrace and Wan
Zhu developed one ritual to negate the wards and one to
allow safe travel across them. Currently, the Cloud Mandarins
keep these developments secret because they don’ t want the
Tremere  developing  a  newer  and  more  effective
countermeasure.  They  also  don’  t  want  the  Foreigner-
Vanquishing Crusaders to push for an untimely invasion of
the West Coast. Instead, the Cloud Mandarins rant and rail
and pretend the wards hem them in San Francisco, when
they in fact wait patiently to fortify their position before
continuing their annexation of the West Coast.

40

EFFECTS OF THE WARDS

In case a foolish Kuei-jin tries leaving the city via
any bridge or the BART Tunnel, the wards inflicts
three dice of lethal damage on contact. The Tremere
placed thirteen warded points along each route. Any
traveling Kuei-jin suffers a total of 39 dice of lethal
damage  before  reaching  the  opposite  side.
Additionally, the Kuei-jin must check for wave soul
after activating each ward. Failure means the Kuei-
jin flees back the way he came as quickly as possible
(and passing through at least one ward on the return
trip). Spending a Willpower allows the Kuei-jin to
automatically pass the wave soul check, but no Kuei-
jin  has  enough  Willpower  to  survive  the  journey
without making at least three checks.

Needless to say, no Kuei-jin survives the wards
without  using  a  Writ  of  Protected  Passage  ritual
(see p. 130).

To  keep  up  appearances,  the  Cloud  Mandarins
“threaten” to execute Kindred within San Francisco until
the Camarilla drops the wards. Van Nuys, unaware of the
Mandarinate’s  true  intentions,  negotiates  on  the
Camarilla’s behalf, trying to prevent “a massacre” while
bolstering his reputation within the Camarilla. The Cloud
Mandarins counted on that, however. They possess neither
the strength nor manpower to execute Kindred in force.
Instead, they want Van Nuys to succeed in his negotiations
and appear the Camarilla’s hero. In that way, the  Cloud
Mandarins increase their own clout in the city through
Van  Nuys,  while  removing  some  of  Prince  Winder’s
support. It also allows them to keep the Crusaders quiet
under the  mistaken assumption that the wards stymie the
invasion. Meanwhile, the Camarilla believes its strategy
of  erecting  the  wards  makes  excellent  use  of  the  city’s
geography and turns San Francisco into a less effective
launching point for the Kuei-jin invasion of America’s
West Coast.

The CFZ’ s phases four and five, while planned and in
the early stages, have yet to be fully implemented. Phase
four includes stationing Assamites still operating for the
Camarilla in small cities throughout northern California
—  Silicon Valley in particular — to act as scourges for
Cathayan vampires. Stage five of the CFZ plan, by far the
most controversial, grants acknowledgement in Camarilla
cities  to  any  unaligned  Kindred  who  capture  or  kill  a
Cathayan  anywhere  in  North  America  outside  of  San
Francisco.  Not  surprisingly,  Clan  Giovanni  takes  the
most ardent advantage of this offer, both as a means of
entering the Camarilla’ s good graces and avenging their
own  thwarted  efforts  at  penetrating  the  Orient.  The
Followers of Set also see this as an interesting means for
insinuating themselves into Camarilla cities. While there
are not many of them on the West Coast, the region’s
handful  of  Setites  are  suddenly  very  interested  in  the

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

Tongs’ heroin trade — much to the chagrin of the Tongs,
whose casualty rates soar.

The  Inner  Circle  continues  to  brainstorm  over
techniques at reducing the Cathayan incursion in North
America to a minimum. With anarchs and the Sabbat
already threatening the continent’s stability, the Camarilla
hopes to quash this new threat before it gains any more
momentum.  What  further  tactics  Camarilla  strategists
employ  to  nullify  the  Cathayan  threat  in  this  nascent
conflict  remain  to  be  seen,  but  the  battle  plans  of  the
Camarilla’ s master tacticians are sure to give the Quincunx
cause for second thoughts on their much-vaunted “Great
Leap Outward.” Conversely, the Kuei-jin’s generals are
equally adept at turning obstacles into advantages  — as
demonstrated by their handling of the wards. The Inner
Circle  is  again  in  danger  of  underestimating  their
opponents’ skill and resolve in the matter.
MOVING AROUND SAN FRANCISCO

Much of San Francisco  rests on a series of steep hills.
The  rising  streets  and  spectacular  views  lend  the  city
much of its charm and character, but the hills also pose
problems for San Franciscans, both mortal and immortal.
Before the advent of the cable car, people needed teams
of horses to haul wagons up the hills. Occasional accidents
dragged  wagon  and  team  to  the  bottom  of  the  hill,
resulting in the deaths of numerous horses. In fact, the
rebuilding of San Francisco following the 1906 earthquake
killed hundreds of draft horses.

In some areas, the city’s hills are so steep that sidewalks
become stairs for pedestrians to climb. Most people can’ t do
more  than  walk  going  uphill  and  may  even  move  at  half
walking pace on a steep hill. Vampires do not contend with the
fatigue of climbing hills, but must keep the terrain in mind
when hunting (or fleeing pursuit, in the modern nights).

A famous sight along the city’s downtown streets are
the cable cars making their way up and down the hills.
Built over a hundred years ago, the cars have only two
lines.  The  city  considers  them  a  national  monument,
preserving them for their historical value and as a tourist
attraction  (only  tourists  really  ride  them  any  longer,
considering one must often wait an hour or more in line
to do so). Of course, given that cable cars nearly always
carry  tourists,  some  vampires  look  at  them  as  “lunch
wagons” holding potential prey.

With space at a premium in the crowded city, parking
along the steep streets is necessary. Such parking spaces are
often angled toward the street, and drivers must turn their
car’ s wheels inward, preventing vehicles left in neutral
from rolling downhill and out into traffic. A city ordinance
mandates a fine for anyone parking improperly on a hill.
San Francisco’s streets are hilly, winding and crowded,
although  not  as  congested  as  New  York  City  or  Los
Angeles. Driving can be difficult and parking is expensive
in the downtown area. The city encourages its citizens to
use public transportation. San Francisco has an excellent

CHAPTER THREE: UTOPIA LOST

subway system called the Muni that  reaches most areas.
There is also the BART (or Bay Area Rapid Transit), an
underground train traversing the bay into Oakland and
points north and south.

Wards placed by the Tremere along the BART tunnel
prevent the Kuei-jin from safely using it to leave the city (see
p. 130 for details). The Tremere also considered warding
some  of  the  Muni  tunnels  (with  the  assistance  of  the
Nosferatu), thus making it more difficult for the Cathayans
to move about within the city. The Camarilla fears the threat
to its Masquerade, however, and such  a move would provoke
a  severe  response  from  the  New  Promise  Mandarinate,
which already threatens to execute vampires.

THE DISTRICTS OF SAN
FRANCISCO

San Francisco is a diverse city in terms of culture and
population  as  well  as  architecture,  landscape  and
neighborhoods.  The  Kuei-jin  claim  most  of  the  major
areas or “set them aside”  for the Kindred. San Francisco
neighborhoods  vary  widely,  given  the  steep  hills  that
serve as the city’s hallmark and provide natural boundaries
between the many different districts.
THE FINANCIAL DISTRICT

Wall Rating: 9
The heart of Ventrue, and therefore Camarilla, control
over San Francisco was the city’ s bustling Financial District.
Centered on Market Street in the north-central area, it is
home  to  many  international  corporations,  particularly
financial institutions like the Bank of America, insurance
companies and brokerage houses. The Financial District’s
various enterprises employ hundreds of thousands of people,
some  of  them  loyal  to  Kindred  masters  their  employers
know nothing about.

The  number  of  ghouls  operating  in  the  Financial
District has increased since the Kuei-jin ousted the Kindred.
The  Ventrue  always  used  ghouls  and  mortal  proxies  to
handle their affairs during the day, but that need grows now
that the Ventrue cannot easily visit the District personally
and  must  handle  everything  via  cell  phone  and  e-mail.
Even Kin-jin assigned to the Pacific Heights M-T Sector
aren’t allowed in the Financial District without a high-
ranking escort from the Mandarinate.

The Kuei-jin are becoming aware of just how deeply the
Ventrue sank their fangs into this financial center’s heart.
They know ghouls hide among the mortals here, but have
had a difficult time thus far  finding them and surreptitiously
weeding them out. Instead, the Kuei-jin focus on extending
their power and building Scarlet Screens to serve their needs
in North America. Their capacity to offer lucrative business
ties with Hong Kong and other parts of Asia is an attractive
asset.  Behind  the  scenes,  the  ghouls  and  Scarlet  Screens
clash in a ballet of corporate buy-outs, stock manipulations,

41

dividend frauds and investment schemes, struggling for the
tremendous prize this small district represents.

 The Financial District is also home to several San Francisco
landmarks, the most notable of which is the Trans-America
Building, a pyramid-shaped tower some 853 feet tall. The top
212 feet taper into a spire holding mechanical equipment.
Although  famed  for  its  architecture,  the  Trans-America
Building is both an eyesore and a true thorn in the Mandarinate’s
side. Its design and layout flout nearly all conventions of feng
shui , polluting the city’s Chi and sending out “poison arrows”
in  all  directions,  particularly  in  the  Financial  District  (see
Cultivating Chi in Chapter 6 for more information). Kuei-jin
geomancers believe the building’ s presence is one reason the
Mandarinate faces such adversity in the District, but there is
little to be done about it (despite some radical suggestions
about arranging for the building’s destruction).
PACIFIC HEIGHTS (M-T SECTOR)

Wall Rating: 8
As  prisons  go,  Pacific  Heights  is  perhaps  the  most
luxurious the world has seen. Its lavish residences provide
homes for technology barons, bank presidents and, in the
modern nights, those Kindred sufficiently useful to the
New Promise Mandarinate.

Any Kindred who makes a clear effort on behalf of the
New Promise Mandarinate earns a  shot at Pacific Heights.
Assignment to this M-T Sector is a priority among Kindred
intent on pursuing a lengthy unlife in San Francisco. The
district is large, the Kindred population small and the havens,
while expensive, remain affordable by those with four or
more dots in the Resources Background. Pacific Heights is
comfortable and sits close enough to the city’s hub of power
that  the  more  politically  minded  Kindred  consider    it  a
perfectly respectable base from which to lobby the Kuei-jin.
Former Prince Van Nuys resides in Pacific Heights M-T as
does Kelvin Wee, the Camarilla’s chief negotiator.

The Pacific Heights Sector is bounded by Chestnut Street
to the north, California Street to the south, Scott Street to the
west and Van Ness Avenue to the east. It includes the popular
Union Street Shopping district, Alta Plaza, Lafayette Park,
Pacific Medical Center and the University of the Pacific. Add
in  several  hotels  and  other  tourist  draws,  and  you  have
exceptionally rich feeding grounds for the resident Kindred.
Relocation to Pacific Heights is no small matter. It
requires significant effort, political finesse and subservience
to the Quincunx. Speaking Chinese (any dialect, though
the Quincunx prefers Mandarin) sets Kindred far ahead in
the running for a cushy Pacific Heights reassignment. The
Quincunx’s representatives find English bland and don’t
like  using  it.  They  automatically  upgrade  any  Kindred
familiar with their native Tongue from “barbarian” to “
potential tool.” These Kindred must truly believe, or at
least  convince  the  Quincunx  they  believe,  the  New
Promise Mandarinate is the way of the future, is better
than the Camarilla and  is worth the dedication of effort.
They must willingly advocate the Quincunx’s position to
other  Kindred  and  apprise  the  Mandarinate  of  the

42

Camarilla’s position and — ideally —  strategies. Ventrue,
prized for their persuasion skills, earn priority status for
allocation to Pacific Heights.

Understandably, Camarilla loyalists look askance at
vampires assigned to Pacific Heights, the inference being
that only those vampires who betrayed the Camarilla and
became the Quincunx’ s lapdogs dwell here. Even Wee, a
known  Camarilla  supporter,  is  the  target  of  occasional
barbed comments, most often by those who simply envy
his comfortable existence and haven.

Surprisingly, only a little more than half of the Pacific
Heights Kindred actually “sold out”  to the Quincunx.
While many are there because of their various services on
behalf  of  the  invaders,  the  Quincunx  assigns  some
specifically to bring them under suspicion by other Kindred.
Still others dwell in Pacific Heights because they’ re too
important in the Kindred power structure. If Prince Winder
was not so clearly a Camarilla agent of war, the Quincunx
would assign her to this Munificent Transitioning Sector
as well. In her case, however, the only thing saving her
from being relegated to Bayview is that she is a powerful
and respected Camarilla Prince.

The  Kuei-jin  do  not  maintain  a  strong  presence
around the Pacific Heights M-T Sector, nor may Tong
members  venture  there  for  any  reason.  The  Kindred
assigned here have too much to lose by straying from their
“reservation.”  The Kuei-jin do launch occasional spot
checks, however, to ensure the Kindred do not abuse the
so-called freedoms the Quincunx so kindly gives them.
On those occasions when a Kindred is demoted and
banished  from  Pacific  Heights  to  a  less  desirable  M-T
Sector, the Quincunx’s agents turn it into a grand spectacle
of  shame  and  drama.  The  Quincunx  distributes  special
writs dictating the event with brutal embellishment. They
require the area’s Kindred to gather and watch the offending
vampire leave, often only carrying the contents of one box.
The Quincunx destroys, confiscates, or sells the vampire’ s
remaining possessions. They want San Francisco’ s entire
Kindred population to know this Kindred in question is a
disgrace to the New Promise Mandarinate. The results are
surprisingly effective since the vampires in this M-T Sector
are already suspect, and earn the animosity of vampires  in
the poorer Munificent Transitioning Sectors. Even those
Kindred who despise the Kuei-jin as invaders go out of their
way to avoid public humiliation.

Pacific Heights boasts the best feeding opportunities
in  San  Francisco  currently  available  to  Kindred.    The
Kuei-jin  deliberately  keep  the  Kindred-to-mortal  ratio
low here to maintain this particular luxury element. The
irony is that most, though not all, the Kindred assigned
here possess large herds and don’ t particularly need to
take advantage of the sector’s feeding opportunities. Still,
it’s nice to know it’s there.

The  greatest  drawback  to  the  Pacific  Heights  M-T
Sector  is  its  impact  on  vampiric  social  existence.  In  the
absence of the traditional citywide Elysium, the only vampires
one often sees are members of one’s own sector. That’ s little

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

consolation  when  that  comprises  perhaps  six  other
individuals, particularly when their political affiliations are
in question. Exacerbating the situation is that Kindred from
the other sectors hesitate to speak with  the Kindred assigned
to Pacific Heights for fear of being in league with perceived
traitors. The net effect is the Kindred in Pacific Heights feel
as though they exist in luxurious isolation.

While the Kuei-jin claim they keep Pacific Heights
thinly populated with vampires to maintain higher-caliber
feeding territory, the Quincunx’s opponents suggest Pacific
Heights is all about shifting the Kindred’ s loyalties to the
Kuei-jin. By making the representatives of the Quincunx
the only social alternative and appearing sympathetic to
the concerns of that sector’s Kindred, the Kuei-jin ensure
that  high-status Kindred become strongly motivated into
transferring their loyalties to the Quincunx.

The Pacific Heights M-T Sector is the goal toward
which all Kindred should work as part of the New Promise
Mandarinate.  While  few  Kindred  actually  believe  the
Kuei-jin’s stance, they’ re not beyond playing the game to
earn luxury housing assignments and good feeding grounds.
Kindred are nothing if not pragmatic.
CHINATOWN

Wall Rating: 7, as low as 5 at night and as low as 3 in

places of strong Chi.

The seat of the Quincunx’s power in San Francisco is,
of  course,  Chinatown;  the  epicenter  of  the  Kuei-jin
invasion. Smelly, vibrant, overcrowded, colorful and noisy,
Chinatown’ s two dozen blocks at the base of Nob Hill,
three blocks from Union Square, are the most densely
populated in the entire city.

This  neighborhood  provides  a  relatively  safe  and
familiar environment for the Quincunx’s representatives
and  a  gentle  introduction  to  American  culture  for
conservative Kuei-jin. Despite the ornate gates marking
Chinatown’  s  major  entrances,  the  quarter  mile  area
seems barely able to contain the ninety thousand teeming
bodies keeping the district busy twenty-four hours a day.
By  day,  tourists  throng  Chinatown’s  main  streets
(like  Grant  Avenue)  looking  for  exotic  knick-knacks
while  night  brings  swarms  of  xenophilic  diners  to  the
district. Some of Chinatown’ s residents prefer less activity,
but  the  Kuei-jin  find  the  situation  conducive  to  their
needs. Not only does it remind them of the world they left
behind, but also in the bustling masses, amid chopsticks
and fortune cookies, floppy hats and plastic Buddhas, they
easily hide and conduct their affairs unnoticed. Chinatown
offers  anonymity  and  its  commercial  hum  covers  their
whispered plotting. In fact, in a country full of louts who
cannot discern Chinese from Japanese, the Kuei-jin don’t
believe they require much cover… or so they like to think.
As far as the Kuei-jin believe, Chinatown is their sole
fortress in a perilous and alien land.

With  the  rare  exception  of  heavily  supervised
Camarilla politicos, the Mandarinate expressly prohibits

CHAPTER THREE: UTOPIA LOST

Kindred from entering Chinatown. Being caught outside
one’s assigned M-T Sector is never a good thing, and the
Quincunx punish  Kindred in a myriad of ways for such a
transgression.  Trespassing  in  Chinatown,  however,
invariably  results  in  the  Kindred’s  destruction  after  a
lengthy  and  excruciating  interrogation  to  discern  the
interloper’s motives.

Strategically  located  near  all  the  city’s  power-
brokering districts, Chinatown is ideally situated for the
Kuei-jin’ s incursion into San Francisco. The powerful
Financial District lies only a few blocks east, wealthy Nob
Hill begins its rise in Chinatown’s center and its northern
edge blends into the affluent North Beach district.

Chinatown relies heavily on money pumped into its
coffers by tourists. Despite this, it retains a respectable degree
of autonomy and ethnic identity. Although tourist shops
selling  tacky  curios  and  cheap  souvenirs  choke  its  main
streets, it has its own schools, churches, banks and newspaper.
The real Chinatown is in the dark and narrow alleyways
wending their labyrinthine way between the buildings housing
markets, bakeries, laundries and temples — all huddled in
the shadows of the enormous Chi-warping glass and steel
monoliths of San Francisco’s Financial District.

Parallel  to  the  tourist-infested  Grant  Avenue,  the
real center of the district is Stockton Street, crammed
with spice shops, bakeries and vegetable and fish markets

43

selling  wares  too  exotic  for  the  standard  tourist.  The
district’ s secret heart is a narrow alley all of two blocks
long that American maps call Waverly Place. This is the
Quincunx’s  base  of  operations  in  San  Francisco.  Two
skillfully hidden temples, opulently decorated in vermilion,
black and gold and closed to Caucasian visitors, provide
the setting for the vast majority of the Kuei-jin’s planning.
Despite  appearances,  neither  Chinatown  nor  San
Francisco’s Asian population is poor. Owing to their pro-
education attitudes and willingness to work seventy-hour
weeks (not to mention their inclination to sell Mystery™
and Exoticism™ to bored Americans), the locals are the
city’s most affluent ethnic population. In the eyes of the
Kuei-jin,  this  prosperity  is  simply  one  more  tool  with
which to leverage their control of the city. While it still
can’  t  compete  with  the  sheer  financial  clout  that  the
Ventrue  wield,  it  gives  the  Quincunx  more  cash  flow
options than merely relying on the Tong-run gambling
and drug trades.

Although  home  to  the  second  largest  Chinese-
speaking  population  outside  of  China,  San  Francisco’s
Chinatown  isn’t  solely  Chinese  and  hasn’t  been  for
decades.  Koreans,  Vietnamese,  Thai,  Filipinos  and
Laotians also integrated into the community, making the
district representative of all of the Middle Kingdom, not

44

CHINATOWN SPIES

Despite the thin veneer of civility masking the real
nature  of  the  Kindred/Kuei-jin  conflict,  there  is  no
mistaking that a war exists —  and every war needs its
spies. The Kuei-jin primarily use Bone Flower spies because
their combination of self-control, stealth and scholarship
makes them well suited  for the task. It was they who
formed the first wave of Kuei-jin entering San Francisco
and  they  who  assassinated  key  members  of  the  city’  s
primogen. It continues to be the Song of the Shadow
followers who disguise themselves as American Kindred
to provide the information they need on the Camarilla’s
activities. Rootless Trees are also masterful spies, but the
few followers of the Path of a Thousand Whispers in San
Francisco are hardly ideal servants of the Mandarinate
(see Chapter Four for more information).

The Camarilla does not have easy access to shape-
shifting spies, but they have resources of their own. While
the Kuei-jin spot Caucasian Kindred lurking in Chinatown
(typically posing as tourists) with relative ease, the Camarilla
has greater success using Asian Kindred as spies.

Many Kindred of Chinese extraction fled Hong Kong
in 1997 after Britain returned her former colony to China.
When the Kuei-jin poured in, their zeal and anger turned
toward eliminating the Kin-jin presence. There  was no
appealing to their shared heritage and culture for safety.
The lucky ones fled to Camarilla-controlled lands.

Today, these individuals constitute the Camarilla’s
most effective agents in the war against the invading
Quincunx.  Their  extensive  knowledge  of  Chinese
culture,  fluency  in  the  language  and  their  lingering
bitterness  toward  the  Kuei-jin  provide  both  the
competence and the motivation the Camarilla needs
in  its  campaign  against  the  invading  Cathayans.
Throughout the Camarilla’ s higher echelons, rumors
abound of Chinese operatives specially trained in rare
Disciplines  unknown  to  the  Kuei-jin.  Valeran  and
Vicissitude  in  particular  resemble  the  Cathayans’
strange abilities, to some degree.  These alleged agents
effectively venture into Chinatown under deep cover,
thereby assisting Camarilla spies in the infiltration of
their Kuei-jin adversaries. The truth of these reports, as
one might expect, remains elusive.

What is certain is both the Quincunx and Camarilla
maintain secret windows into each other’s activities,
but how it impacts the impending conflict between the
two sects remains to be seen.

just  the  Quincunx’  s  August  Courts.  While  this  fact
mildly irritates the Quincunx at times, it conveniently
provides  them  with  a  hook  for  drawing  Kuei-jin  from
other courts into their American campaign.

The Quincunx happily implies it will take control of
North America’s West Coast by itself unless Kuei-jin from
other regions help them in their invasion. The thinly veiled
reality of the situation is that the Quincunx by itself is  hard-

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

pressed  to  find  enough  Kuei-jin  willing  to  leave  their
positions in Quincunx society to join in the Great Leap
Outward. Likewise, many of those willing aren’t competent
or trustworthy enough to receive that task.

Instead, the Quincunx forges coalitions with Kuei-jin
from other Courts —  notably the Green and Gold Courts,
where the chains of expectation, tradition and stasis bind
Kuei-jin less firmly than they do in China (and where
being allied with the Quincunx carries somewhat more
cachet). In this way, the Five August Courts manage to
recruit  and  deploy  enough  Kuei-jin  to  overwhelm  the
native Kin-jin, though high casualties resulting from a
war of attrition make the Great Leap Outward a more
difficult prospect than the Quincunx admits.

While the Kuei-jin think of Chinatown as theirs, that
may be less true than they imagine. The social ills that
Kuei-jin re-ignite may explode in their faces like a New
Year’s  firecracker  if  they  don’t  avoid  antagonizing
Chinatown’ s real masters: its mortal inhabitants.
THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC

For  all  the  cultural  similarities  between  the  two
groups,  Chinatown’s  inhabitants  are  not  the  people  of
China. They work hard to maintain their community to
its current level of affluence and bourgeois comfort, and
they happily reap the concomitant rewards of the American
system. They don’ t have the same inclination to turn a
blind eye to graft as their Chinese cousins do, for example,
nor do they exhibit as much tolerance for (or belief in)
troublesome shen . While the differences are subtle, they
are crucial with regard to the relations between Kuei-jin
and Chinatown’s mortals.

Chinatown’s  citizens  possess  a  strong,  unquestioned
appreciation for tradition, but even the most conservative
among  them  experiences  more  freedoms,  less  political
corruption  and  more  comfortable  circumstances  than  the
average  Chinese  citizen.  They  are  not  as  fatalistic  as  the
Chinese, and that in itself makes them more independent and
dynamic —  and the Kuei-jin uncomfortable. It is as though
the headstrong American psyche permeates the character of
those living here longest. They do not accept Tong activity in
their neighborhoods as a given, and they fight the Kuei-jin’ s
re-establishment of the Tongs at every step. Second generation
inhabitants are almost as bad as Americans with their relentless
pursuit of middle class values.

That said, tradition follows Chinatown’s inhabitants
from infancy. Children go to American schools by day
and to Chinese schools by night,  absorbing the language
and culture of their parents. The community stresses and
rewards  academic  performance.  This  focus  on  learning
creates  a  communal  wealth  that  serves  as  one  more
obstacle  facing  the  Kuei-jin.  In  China,  only  a    tiny
minority of the population is as educated or as prosperous
as the vast majority of Chinatown’s mortals.

Admittedly, however, that is not indicative of every
Chinatown  resident.  There  is  a  small  but  growing
population of first-generation immigrants smuggled into

CHAPTER THREE: UTOPIA LOST

America  by  Tongs.  They  remain  alienated  from
Chinatown’  s  more  established  residents  because  they
lack  money  and  connections.  Many  are  criminals  who
fled  China  to  avoid  jail.  Those  who  are  not  criminals
remain at the mercy of the Tongs. It is Tong policy to meet
the families of anyone they smuggle to America. If the
Tong makes a request of the refugee and he refuses, they
threaten or kill the illegal immigrant’s family members to
insure matters go their way.

The Kuei-jin occasionally use Tong connections in China
to pressure some Chinese Americans in Chinatown, but it’s
exactly those tactics that may bring about the strongest anti-
Kuei-jin backlash if the Quincunx is not careful.

Epitomizing Chinatown’s no-nonsense approach to
the Kuei-jin is the old Taoist wizard, Father Li T’ien (p.
117).  While  he  represents  the  very  heart  and  soul  of
Chinatown’ s traditional values, he also understands and
appreciates  the  many  differences  between  the  United
States and China. His deep esteem for tradition does not
include  tolerance  for  those  Kuei-jin  trying  to  shackle
Chinatown’  s  citizens  with  the  same  servitude  and
obligation to the shen under which their Chinese cousins
labor. He sees the increase in Tong activity and prepares
to take rectify the situation, teaching  the arrogant vampires
a lesson in the process.

The growing culture clash is result of the Kuei-jin’s
expectations that Chinatown should be like China and
Chinatown’s residents insisting it isn’t and never will be.
The  vast  majority  of  the  Kuei-jin  participating  in  the
establishment of the New Promise Mandarinate originate
from the Middle Kingdom.

The number of kànbujiàn emerging on American soil
since  Chinatown’s  establishment  remains  in  the  low
double digits. Four of those, however, took place in the
last year, so it’ s possible the Great Leap Outward really
does  extend  the  Middle  Kingdom’s  sway  into  North
America. Time will tell whether this is real or a temporary
anomaly.  The  Quincunx  obviously  hope  it  remains  an
ongoing trend.  For it to do otherwise means their invasion
efforts fall apart the moment the Camarilla realizes their
Asian adversaries can’t mass-embrace. If that happened,
Kindred could  outnumber Kuei-jin by two to one in the
space of a week.

Further  complicating  matters  is  the  difficulty  in
tracking down newly risen Kuei-jin. Without education
in  the  Dharmas,  an  uneducated  chih-meh    is  more
animalistic and barbaric than the Kin-jin at their worst,
likely to self-destruct or fall to the Yama Kings’ corruption.
While the Quincunx has yet to ascertain the truth of the
matter,  a  rumor  circulating  in  Chinatown  claims  an
established akuma    maintains  vigilant  watch  for  newly
risen Kuei-jin so he may provide them with the corrupt
learning of the Yomi lords.
TONGS

While the mortal inhabitants of Chinatown may be less
willing to tolerate criminal activity than the Chinese, that

45

hasn’t kept the Tongs from operating in the United States. Far
from it. Up and down the Pacific Coast, American Tongs
maintain extensive ties to their Chinese counterparts. While
the Tongs in Chinatown were on the wane before the Kuei-
jin invasion, that is certainly not the case any longer.

The  invaders  not  only  reinitiated  many  old  Tong
connections in Chinatown, they underwrite new  ones as
a means of providing an ongoing source of pawns. Owing
to  the  Kuei-jin  shortage,  the  Quincunx  relies  on  their
Tong Scarlet Screens far more than they ordinarily do in
China — particularly  in their ongoing cold war with the
city’s Kindred. The Kuei-jin themselves are no longer the
Kindred’s only adversaries in Chinatown.

In days past, before becoming a tourist Mecca, Grant
Avenue was Dupont Street. It provided the setting for a
seemingly endless and ineradicable procession of gambling
huts,  opium  dens  and  cheap  whorehouses.  The  Tongs
frequented,  ran  and  sometimes  terrorized  these
establishments. Unusually enough, the Tongs originally
evolved from vigilante gangs who took it upon themselves
to police Chinatown against racist attacks by xenophobic
Americans — typically in as violent a fashion as possible.
The Tongs quickly lost their sense of purpose, however,
and degenerated into warring rival factions.

During decades of vying for the West Coast’s lucrative
drug trade, conflict between the Tongs spilled as much blood
as  any  feud  in  Gangland  Chicago  or  Los  Angeles’s    war
between the Crips and the Bloods. These stories never made
the mainstream press thanks to the enforced subtlety and
quiet intervention of the Chinese community, who didn’t
want the scrutiny that those kinds of headlines brought.

Tong activity was dying out (or at least going deep
underground)  before  the  invasion.  Then,  in  need  of
disposable thugs, the vampires pulled invisible strings to
reactivate an entire network of heroin dealers, pimps and
petty criminals to act as agents, “cash flow engineers,” and
emissaries of their displeasure.

More than a few Kindred met Final Death in recent
years at the hands of mortal Chinese youth gangs wielding
shotguns and Molotov cocktails filled with home-brewed
napalm. The Tongs likewise made easy  targets for Kindred
angry  about  losing  their  pre-invasion  way  of  life.  The
streets radiating out from Chinatown are now the setting
for all manner of horrific violence. Tong members and
ghouls increasingly play out the conflict between Kuei-jin
and Kindred in shadow form during the day, while the real
adversaries, out of political necessity, pretend they possess
some kind of amicable arrangement.

Despite the Quincunx’s backing, San Francisco’s Tongs
are being assailed from all sides. Ventrue pawns in city hall,
Chinatown community groups and business associations
and police who resent working harder than they used to all
pressure various Tong members. They want them either to
cease operations or return to the underground where the
Kuei-jin found them. For more information on Tongs and
their  modus  operandi,  see  Killing  Streets,  the  Middle
Kingdom’s gritty urban street life sourcebook.

46
THE CIVIC CENTER
Wall Rating: 8
The Civic Center is at the heart of downtown San
Francisco. It lies to the west of the Financial District and
east  of  Golden  Gate  Park.  To  the  north  lies  Pacific
Heights and the Presidio; to the south is Haight-Ashbury.
Franklin, Market and Turk Streets mark the boundaries of
the triangular district.

Among the Civic Center’s landmarks are City Hall,
the  San  Francisco  Main  Library,  the  Federal  Building,
Symphony Hall and the Opera House. Many buildings in
this  district  feature  a  neo-classical  style  of  architecture.
Experts consider Symphony Hall one of the most acoustically
perfect buildings in the world. The San Francisco Main
Library recently moved into a new building constructed in
the wake of the 1989 earthquake while the old, refurbished
Library Building became the new home of the Asian Arts
Museum (see “Richmond,” p. 48, for more information).
Naturally, the New Promise Mandarinate claims the
Civic  Center,  which  limits  Kin-jin  contact  with  San
Francisco’s  mortal  government  while  insinuating  the
Kuei-jin  throughout the district. The Cloud Mandarins
received significant aid in this effort from the Kindred
currently  residing  in  Pacific  Heights.  Although  the
Mandarinate’s sway is nowhere near that of the Camarilla’
s at its height, it exceeds the Camarilla’s current clout.
An  important  area  of  the  Civic  Center  is  Japan
Center, under the control of the local gaki. Ostensibly
they  are  allies  of  the  Quincunx  and  the  New  Promise
Mandarinate, though matters are not nearly as agreeable
as they appear on the surface.
JAPAN CENTER
Wall Rating: 7
There was a time when San Francisco had a thriving
Japanese population. They came to California in the early
20th century when they tired of working in the sugar cane
fields of Hawaii. The so-called “Little Tokyo” neighborhood
occupied some forty blocks of the Western Addition, and was
home to a stock exchange, two large Japanese banks, three
major hotels, sixteen import/export companies, twenty florists
and a handful of thriving Japanese bookstores.

In  April  of  1942,  the  beautiful,  carefully  tended
blocks of Little Tokyo became a ghost town when the
United States government forced West Coast Americans
of Japanese ancestry to sell everything they owned and
move inland to “internment camps” in Utah, Wyoming
and Idaho. To sell their property in the short time they
were given, the residents of Little Tokyo had to accept a
fraction of its worth, often from buyers of questionable
merit. After  the war, a few Japanese made their way back
to  San  Francisco  and  found  that  the  beautiful
neighborhood they had sold so cheaply was now a poverty-
stricken  ghetto.  San  Francisco’s  Japanese  community,
once rivaling Chinatown in size, never recovered.

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

Japan Center now occupies approximately six blocks
at the bottom of the poverty-stricken Western Addition.
It  is less an ethnic community than a neatly manicured,
relentlessly tidy shopping district. There are several fine
hotels in the area along  with shops and restaurants, all
catering to tourists who pass through looking for a taste of
the exotic and unusual.

The gaki resent the situation bitterly. They have their
own ideas for the Great Leap Outward, but are far less
anchored to San Francisco than their counterparts in the
Quincunx. That said, they play the hand they’ ve been
dealt to great success.

San Francisco’s Japanese population, although merely
a  fraction  of  its  pre-World  War  II  numbers,  is  quite
affluent. More so, some willingly work with the gaki  and
their Yakuza associates. Almost all the Kuei-jin based out
of Japan Center owe allegiance to House Genji. Setting
up shop in North America is, in their eyes, simply the next
step in bringing themselves fully into the modern age.
The Japanese vampires, however, don’ t want to take over
North America and replace American vampire culture
with their own. The gaki want to insinuate themselves as
seamlessly into American culture as possible.

The  Ukiyo  “floating  world”  uji  holds  that  Japan  was
punished over the last century because it deserved to be, and
that America thrived because it was equally deserving. The
Kuei-jin of the Ukiyo uji came to San Francisco in the early
‘60s and blended in immediately. Their intent was not to
impose Asian values on American Kindred, but to figure out
what local Kindred were doing that engendered such success.
When the Quincunx vampires arrived en masse, the gaki
maintained a low profile and aided the Chinese Kuei-jin only
when unable to avoid the situation any longer. From the
perspective of the Floating World uji  vampires, the Quincunx
ruins everything they worked so carefully to build.

The Quincunx assigned the gaki with patrolling Japan
Center, and assumes they are at least as aggressive as the
Mandarinate in keeping the native Kindred in line. Their
assumption is incorrect. On the contrary, many gaki  have
allies among the Kindred (particularly the Ventrue and
the  Toreador)  and  must  watch  helplessly  while  the
Quincunx, arrogant as always, undermine the peaceful
inroads made by the gaki over the last four decades.

While the gaki do not tolerate Kindred feeding in Japan
Center, they might, under the right circumstances and  for
the right price, offer them sanctuary. Neither the Quincunx
nor of the Camarilla knows this. Once the information slips
out, however, the shape of the New Promise Mandarinate
will likely change in very fundamental ways.
THE TENDERLOIN
Wall Rating: 7
Not far from the successful Civic Center or Financial
District is the Tenderloin, so named because it originally
housed  San  Francisco’s  meatpacking  industry.  In  the

CHAPTER THREE: UTOPIA LOST

modern nights, the Tenderloin is a slaughterhouse of an
entirely different kind.

The district is a triangle bordered by Market, Larkin
and O’Farrell Streets. It’s the highest crime area in San
Francisco.  During  the  day  the  Tenderloin  is  relatively
safe; people work there in offices, or shop or eat at some
of  the  local  restaurants  and  stores.  At  night,  the
neighborhood  becomes  stalking  ground  for  nocturnal
predators of all kinds, both mortal and immortal. Sleazy
porn theatres and stores abound, along with prostitutes,
drug-dealers and other natives of the night.

Naturally, the Tenderloin is a splendid hunting ground
for  vampires,  which  is  the  prime  reason  why  the  New
Promise Mandarinate didn’t turn it into an M-T Sector. It’s
too low-class for the vampires residing in Pacific Heights
but too well suited for the kind of degenerate scum the
Kuei-jin want penned in at Bayview and Sunset. In other
words, it’ s off limits to Kindred, though poorly patrolled in
actuality since the Kuei-jin have fairly little to do with the
Tenderloin. They prefer safer and higher-class areas of the
city,  so  Kindred  capable  of  evading  the  Mandarinate’  s
sweeps  exist  quite  well  in  this  district.  Many  of  San
Francisco’s unaffiliated vampires established their havens
in the Tenderloin, while most of the Sabbat vampires and
the few remaining local anarchs are found here as well.

The Mandarinate’s only point of interest here is the
neighborhoods’  Thai  community,  which  owns  and  runs
several restaurants that put the Tenderloin on epicurean
maps. The Kuei-jin have not yet determined if the city’ s
Thai community is large enough and devoted enough to
their traditional ways for the Quincunx to assert power and
presence. Still, any potential foothold in the city is valuable.
The Mandarinate maintains a close eye on the district’ s
Asian population, despite the fact that the Thais are more
closely associated with the degenerate Golden Courts (an
influence the Quincunx is uncertain they want invited into
the city…  though they may possess little choice).

The Camarilla is less than pleased about being denied
access to the Tenderloin by the Quincunx. Many believe
it is just another Cathayan ploy to annoy the Kindred,
goading them into a mistake. There’ s also some concern
about the Sabbat’s activities in the area, which remain
almost completely unsupervised. The Mandarinate makes
little  distinction  between  Kin-jin  sects.  They  claim  to
deal  with Sabbat troublemakers as they do any others, but
they don’t know the Cainites like the Camarilla does. The
Kindred worry that any trouble the  Sabbat causes may be
blamed on Western vampires in general, worsening an
already difficult situation. The Sabbat certainly hopes so.
Of  course,  Kindred  working  for  the  Quincunx  also
appreciate the Kuei-jin’s mastery over shadow games and
political intrigue. In fact,  Van Nuys often wonders whether
the Cloud Mandarins leave the Tenderloin untouched to
draw in the city’s seditious element and catch the lot of
them in one net. The coming nights will tell.

47

HAIGHT-ASHBURY
Wall Rating: 6
Haight-Ashbury conjures images of hippie love-ins, tie-
dye clothing and the world seen through a haze of marijuana
smoke, but the home of Flower Power and the Summer of
Love has  changed over the years. It lost some of its innocence
while retaining much of its energy and uniqueness.

The  neighborhood’  s  heart  is  the  intersection  of
Haight and Ashbury Streets in the south-central portion
of San Francisco. Haight Street is the main drag, filled
with cafes and restaurants, bookstores, occult shops, tattoo
parlors,  record  stores  (some  of  which  still  sell  actual
records), curio shops, import businesses and, of course, the
occasional head shop. Corporations bought out some of
the businesses along Haight, but many remain as offbeat
as they’ ve always been. The scent of incense and exotic
cooking fills the air, almost covering the smell of ganja
that seems to permeate the entire neighborhood.

The proximity of Haight-Ashbury to the Castro means
that Kindred are the most common predators in the area,
particularly since the Kuei-jin don’t care much for the
Haight’s “freaky”  attitude. The Kuei-jin keep a close eye
on Kindred wandering through, but their vigilance is less
diligent here. It may be their distaste for the area, the
proximity to Golden Gate Park (which lies at one end of
Haight  Street),  the  neighborhood’  s  legendary  relaxed
atmosphere or some combination of the above.

The Tremere possess a particular interest in Haight-
Ashbury because of the number of occult shops, and therefore
potential ghouls and vassals, to be found there. The area’ s
freewheeling spirit also drew the anarchs, but most of them
moved on to the Tenderloin. The Kindred also know of
some mortal sorcerers and magicians in the Haight, although
they’  re  difficult  to  track  at  the  best  of  times;  since  the
arrival of the Cathayans, many simply vanished into the
woodwork. Still, they may be potential allies, if vampires
find something to offer them in exchange for their aid.
SOMA (M-T SECTOR)

Wall Rating: 8
The city’s second M-T Sector is in SoMa, short for
South of Market (Street), which runs along the northwestern
side. The sector also borders 2nd and 8th  streets to the
northeast and southwest and Brannan to the northwest and
southeast. It includes the Greyhound bus station, Moscone
Convention Center and many hotels, theaters and other
amusements to keep potential vessels passing through.

Historically, the SoMa neighborhood was industrial
rather than residential, and its history manifests in the
building facades along its streets. Unlike the Victorian
row  houses  characterizing  most  other  San  Francisco
neighborhoods, SoMa’ s streets are cluttered by enormous,
featureless warehouses and rehabbed factory buildings.

While SoMa hasn’t actually been an industrial area in
decades, it still maintains that feel. In recent years, many

48

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

of  the  district’s  buildings  became  nightclubs,  sex  clubs
and  offices  for  the  dot-com  boom.  Since  the  Internet
frenzy  went  bust,  however,  many  of  these  buildings  sit
vacant, providing fertile incubating grounds for the city’s
social ills: drug manufacture and distribution, snuff film
production and assorted gang-related crimes.

For Kindred who distinguish themselves in small ways
in the Mandarinate’s eyes, the SoMa M-T Sector provides
a socially comfortable setting that is both close to the Kuei-
jin power structure in Chinatown and easily monitored by
representatives of the Quincunx. It lacks much in the way
of power or prestige compared to Pacific Heights. On the
other hand, SoMa is the hub of San Francisco’ s nightlife,
with  no  fewer  than  forty  bars  or  nightclubs  in  the  area
providing Kindred here with ample feeding resources.

The Kuei-jin presence around SoMa is notable. The
resident  Kindred  are  of  high  enough  status  to  warrant
surveillance,  but  not  so  influential  that  the  Quincunx
exposes  them  to  the  heavy  squeeze  of  Pacific  Heights.
Most high-ranking Camarilla members, except for Prince
Winder, reside here.

As an additional negative element to the SoMa Empty,
local Tong activity is heavy. Many Tong members make a

hefty income for themselves and their Kuei-jin overseers by
providing club-goers with all the drugs they want. This makes
Kindred/Tong conflict in SoMa almost unavoidable, and the
number  of  violent  incidents  between  the  two  groups  has
increased  steadily since the Quincunx established the sector.
While  the  Quincunx  can’t  ask  the  Tongs  to  cease
operations in one of their most lucrative business districts,
they can’ t continually intervene on behalf of their Scarlet
Screens  either.  The  Kuei-jin  initially  told  Kindred  to
ignore the Tong members and stay  out of their way, but the
Tongs took that as carte blanche to harrow the Kindred at
every turn. This led to the deaths of eight Tong members
in one night and the demotion of the city’ s Brujah scourge
to  Bayview.  While  the  Kuei-jin  still  protect  the  Tongs
nominally, the gangsters now know just how much that
protection is worth if they antagonize the wrong vampire.
RICHMOND

Wall Rating: 7, as low as 5 in parts of Golden Gate

Park at night.

Located on the western side of San Francisco, Golden
Gate Park is a rectangular area with over a thousand acres
of wooded and grass-covered land cut through by roads

CHAPTER THREE: UTOPIA LOST

and walking trails. The Presidio is a similar-sized park to
the  north,  established  around    a  former  military  fort.
Sandwiched between them is the western San Francisco
neighborhood of Richmond. They are also, in the modern
nights, among the few portions of the city that Kindred
forcibly retain, mostly through the efforts of two vampires,
the Gangrel Mirko Mirkonen (see p. 108) and Gustavo
Morales (see p. 109).

Golden Gate Park was established in the 1870s, but was
little more than a long stretch of sand dunes at the time.
Scotsman John McLaren, who was Superintendent of Parks
from 1887 to 1943, made it his life’ s work to turn Golden
Gate Park into a green and fertile place. Today it is home to
hundreds  of  plant  species.  It  features  large  wooded  areas
along  with athletic fields, a golf course, two stadiums and
several museums (including the Academy of Sciences).

Just north of Golden Gate Park and the Richmond
district  is  the  Presidio.  It  was  originally  a  military
stronghold,  the  site  of  the  original  Spanish  fortress
established in San Francisco before the U.S. Army turned
it into a military base. Much of the area became part of the
Golden Gate National Recreation Area in the 1970s; the
military eventually decommissioned the base and turned
its grounds over to the park as well. The park currently
occupies some 1,480 acres and includes the old military
base  along  with  the  southern  end  of  the  Golden  Gate
Bridge. It has various trails and a golf course.

Not  long  after  the  Kuei-jin  took  San  Francisco  by
storm, Gangrel Mirko Mirkonen and Gustavo Morales
took up residence in Golden Gate Park. Mirkonen is a
seasoned warrior; he and his ally hunt  and attempt to
destroy any Kuei-jin violating the park’s borders. After
several Cathayans fell to their claws and fangs, the two
Gangrel expanded their territory into the Presidio and
savaged any Cathayans they encountered.

The  Quincunx  initially  responded  by  sending  in
larger and larger scouting parties, but the outcome was the
same each time. Either the party never saw the Kindred
responsible, or they simply never returned. Later scouts
found  their  predecessors’    personal  effects  scattered  in
both  parks.  It  was  initially  an  embarrassment  to  the
Quincunx that later became an unacceptable drain on
their  already-limited  resources  in  San  Francisco.  Now,
rather  than  waging  constant  warfare,  the  Mandarinate
uses  Bone  Flower  assassins  to  slip  into  the  park.  Their
primary targets are the two Gangrel, but more often, they
locate and destroy any rogue Kin-jin who believes the area
safe for their kind. The Mandarinate tries isolating the
two Gangrel from any potential allies, but if they strike at
the root of the problem, so be it.

The Kuei-jin don’t want to advertise the loss of the parks
because  it  draws  attention  to  their  lack  of  troops.  If  the
Camarilla perceives them as unable to hold the entire city,
there may be those Kindred  who see that as an invitation to
test the existing boundaries the Kuei-jin imposed. For that
reason alone the Quincunx has not made an issue of it — yet

49

—  except to former Prince Van Nuys, whom they continually
pressure to muzzle the loose cannon Gangrel.

Van Nuys, in turn, urges Prince Winder to invoke the
right of destruction and send Camarilla Kindred to destroy
the Gangrel. For her part, Prince Winder takes great joy in
meeting  with  Van  Nuys,  then  ignoring  the  Quincunx
toady’ s every word. Still, the Camarilla does not want this
ongoing conflict to become known either, lest other wayward
Kindred attempt something similar and further disrupt the
delicately balanced status quo. Camarilla efforts to contact
Mirkonen and recruit him as a formal ally have failed so far.
Were it not for the residential neighborhood between
the  Golden  Gate  Park  and  the  Presidio,  the  Kuei-jin
could live without the parks easily, since they are largely
empty by night ( save for sleeping homeless people and
gay men cruising for sex). Their point of contention is the
Richmond  district,  which  has  an  enormous  Chinese
population  to  which  they  want  access  —    and  cannot
easily reach. For that reason alone, they feel the district
should be theirs; and it galls them that it’s not.

Meantime, knowledgeable Kindred who are unafraid
to  venture  beyond  their  assigned  sector  partake  of  the
veritable feast that the parks provide, so long as they avoid
the  Bone  Flowers  patrolling  the  region.  They’  re  also
perfectly content to keep their feeding grounds secret. If
word of the parks’ veritable font of vitae escaped, every
Lick in the city would flock here for a bite. That might
anger the parks’ Gangrel  “liberators,” provoke the already-
irritated Kuei-jin and antagonize the Camarilla, all in one
fell swoop.  Thus, those Kindred taking advantage of the
situation,  mostly  from  the  nearby  Castro  and  Sunset
Empties, feed well and enjoy the brief respite from under
the  Cathayans’    thumb.  Only  the  random  haven
inspections  keep  those  Kindred  who  know  about  the
parks from relocating here, though a slow influx of Gangrel
could also spark turf wars for Kindred feeding rights.

In  the  recent  nights,  Gangrel  have  begun  to  slip
through the Kuei-jin net, entering the city and Richmond.
Invariably, Mirkonen and Morales are Gangrel first and
foremost, and thus loyal to their clanmates above all. The
Kindred    are  well  aware  that  their  feeding  prospects
dwindle  with  each  new  Gangrel  arrival.  A  few  of  the
Camarilla’s vampires have considered betraying the so-
called Gangrel Pipeline to the Kuei-jin, thus  putting the
influx of Gangrel to a stop.

The pipeline in question is a dump truck transport
company contracted on behalf of Parks and Services. The
transport company brings fresh, rich earth and soil into
the parks once a week from various farms in the south,
supplementing any soil erosion in the local parks. The
drivers also serve as Mirkonen’s and Morales’ ghouls, who
stop at prearranged sites to pick up potential passengers.
Any Gangrel passenger,  whether by covering themselves
under the tarp-covered dirt or through Earth Meld, hides
in  the  dump  truck  soil  while  the  vehicle  is  in  transit
through San  Francisco. Because the transport company
conveniently arrives near quitting time, the truck is kept

50

LOST TREASURES

Recently the San Francisco Asian Arts Museum
moved  from  its  previous  location  inside  Golden
Gate Park into the Civic Center’s refurbished Library
Building.  Rumor  is  rife  among  Kindred  that  the
Kuei-jin encouraged, if not inspired, the move to
transfer  the  museum  and  its  artifacts  from  the
contested area of the park. The collection is a matter
of moderate interest to the Cathayans, particularly
to Tremere renegade Wan Zhu, who was a respected
museum curator in life (see p. 88). It may contain
items of spiritual if not occult value to the Kuei-jin,
and they strongly believe in honoring and protecting
their cultural heritage.

The other rumor regarding the museum is that
some of its collection went missing in the move to the
Civic Center, and that the Kuei-jin want the thieves.
If this is true, the missing artifacts haven’t surfaced yet,
though all the city’ s factions keep watch for them. In
addition to Mirkonen, the most likely suspects are the
Nosferatu  and  Tremere.  Both  the  tunnel-rats  and
warlocks claim they know nothing about the theft, but
that doesn’t satisfy the Quincunx.

at  the  Parks  and  Services  garage  in  Golden  Gate  Park
until the next morning. This allows the Gangrel to slip
out directly into “safe territory.”

The one group who would benefit from disseminating
the  knowledge  that  the  parks  and  Richmond  district
remain hostile to Kuei-jin is the Sabbat. Whether any of
that sect’s vampires have  stumbled onto that knowledge
yet remains unknown. Given that the Sabbat mostly stay
in the Tenderloin, in the opposite corner of the city, it’s
unlikely; information does have a way of traveling through
strange channels, though….
NORTH BEACH
Wall Rating: 8
San Francisco’s North Beach area lies between Russian
Hill and Chinatown with San Francisco Bay to the north
and east. It’s one of the oldest parts of the city, dating back
to the first settlements, but it hasn’ t had a beach in over
a century. The city filled in the inlet between Russian Hill
and Telegraph Hill to allow for new construction. Part of
the  landfill  included  the  hulks  of  Gold  Rush  era  ships
abandoned  in  the  bay,  now  a  permanent  part  of  San
Francisco’s foundation. Much of the expansion in North
Beach includes office buildings and more space for the
growing Financial District.

Along  the  seaside  edge  of  North  Beach  runs  San
Francisco’s  famous  wharf-lined  Embarcadero  Street,
including  Fisherman’  s  Wharf  and  Pier  39.  These  two
locales  now  serve  as  shopping  havens  for  tourists,  and
bustle with people at all hours of the day and well into the
evening.  The  bay  and  Alcatraz  boat  tours  depart  and

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

return from the wharves, along with various pleasure craft
moored there. The city’s fishing industry, however, shrinks
steadily, owing to the bay’ s contamination and the rising
dockside fees. This is partially why the waterfront is now
more of a tourist attraction.

The Kuei-jin control North Beach for one primary
reason: it is a secure and viable avenue in and out of the
city. Since the Tremere established their wards around
San Francisco (see p. 130 for details), water and air travel
are the only safe (and public) routes for Kuei-jin entering
and leaving, other than making their way south through
Camarilla controlled San Jose. Therefore the New Promise
Mandarinate ensures the docks remain under their  control,
while also keeping a close eye on all traffic and watching
for Kin-jin or akuma trying to enter (or leave).

North  Beach  also  includes  Telegraph  Hill,  now
something of a monument to the Mandarinate’s genesis.
Telegraph Hill is an exclusive neighborhood on a steep
hill  overlooking  the  bay.  At  its  top  is  Coit  Tower,  a
monument to San Francisco’ s firefighters built by a grant
provided by socialite Lillie Hitchcock Coit in 1933. Coit
Tower was the site of the historic meeting between the
Kuei-jin  of  the    New  Promise  Mandarinate  and
representatives  of  the  Camarilla  that  local  anarchs
disrupted.  The  failure  of  that  peace  mission  led  to  the
Kuei-jin  invasion of the city, although cynical Kindred
believe it would have happened regardless the outcome.
THE CASTRO AND NOE VALLEY
(M-T SECTOR)

Wall Rating: 8 during the day, 7 at night
At the bottom of Market Street is the Castro, the world’s
foremost Mecca for gays and lesbians over the last twenty-
five years. Consequently, when the Kuei-jin broke the city
into M-T Sectors, they made sure  the Kindred received that
neighborhood.  The  Kuei-jin’s  deeply  traditional  nature
includes many homophobic attitudes, so in their eyes, giving
the Camarilla the Castro is a subtle slight.

The Camarilla, however, is delighted. The enormous
influx of gay and lesbian tourists who visit each month to
buy rainbow flags and witty T-shirts earns the Castro the
nickname “the cash flow;”  any financial advantage the
Kuei-jin extends to the Camarilla, for whatever reasons,
is  welcome.  The  district  also  has  some  of  the  liveliest
nightlife in the city, allowing Kindred to operate more
freely and with fewer difficulties in feeding.

The Castro actually comprises the neighborhoods of
Noe  Valley,  Eureka  Valley  and  most  of  the  Mission
District. Bounded to the north by Duboce Street, to the
south by 26th  street, to the east by Douglas and to the west
by  Potrero,  this  is  by  far  the  largest  Munificent
Transitioning  Sector.  It  contains  four  parks  including
Buena  Vista  Park  (a  popular  cruising  ground  more
commonly known as Boner Vista), giving Kindred access
to a wide array of feeding locations.

CHAPTER THREE: UTOPIA LOST

Of the five M-T Sectors, the Castro is firmly in the
middle  of  social  rankings  and  by  far  the  most  heavily
populated with Kindred. While assignment here is the
Quincunx’ s attempt at a slight, this is where most Kindred
actually  want  a  haven.  Nobody  places  any  political
expectations on them here, nor is it particularly punitive.
So long as they comport themselves appropriately, stay in
their  M-T  and  don’  t  foment  rebellion,  this  sector’s
Kindred enjoy relative autonomy for no other reason than
the Quincunx’s associated stigma with the neighborhood
and the Kuei-jin’ s discomfort when visiting. The havens
available in the Castro are modest compared to those in
SoMa, but the streets (and frequently alleys) teem with
prey at all hours of the night.

The Castro’s social environment is the loosest of the five
Munificent Transitioning Sectors. Burdened neither by the
Byzantine  nature  of  the  more  privileged  sectors  nor  the
hazards  of  the  two  more  punitive  Empties,  the  Kindred
assigned here exist much as they did before, albeit with less
freedom  of  movement  and  supposedly  curtailed  feeding
options.

The Toreador are particularly comfortable here, thanks to
abundant arts patrons and freewheeling decadents. The Tremere
remain well represented in the Castro and relocated their chantry
to  this  district.  Luna  Demian  herself  resides  in  the  chantry,
eschewing the political games of Pacific Heights and SoMa in
favor of the relative isolation of the Castro (and its closer proximity
to Haight-Ashbury). Finally, there’s  Prince Winder who exists
here by the Quincunx’s so-called magnanimity. While the Kuei-
jin believed their choice in Winder’s haven a clever insult, the
Prince is closer to the Kindred as a whole  than any other vampire
residing in Pacific Heights.
SUNSET (M-T SECTOR)

Wall Rating: 8
The  Quincunx  uses  the  Sunset  M-T  as  a  warning,
relocating Kindred who have drawn the Kuei-jin’ s ire in
small ways. Punishable actions that might land someone
in  Sunset  includes  engaging  in  visible  pro-Camarilla
activism, being caught too frequently outside one’s assigned
M-T Sector (Castro, SoMa and Pacific Heights), showing
insufficient respect for any Kuei-jin, or even referring to
the Quincunx as “invaders.”

The Sunset M-T Sector is the smallest of the five. To
the north and south lie Lincoln Way and Taraval Street,
respectively, while to the west and east lie 41st and 24th
Streets. Unlike the higher-class Empties, this M-T does
not contain any major tourist, transit, or nightclub districts,
making it a more challenging area in which to feed. Just
two  blocks  east  of  this  sector  is  the  San  Francisco
Conservatory of Music. The Kuei-jin patrol the intervening
block relentlessly, looking for Kindred trying to prey on
the music students. The Kindred assigned here all agree
the  Cathayans  deliberately  drew  these  boundaries  to
tantalize and tempt Kindred into trouble.

Far  from  everything  and  so  patently  “white-bread”
that the Kuei-jin stick out, the Sunset district, more than

51

anything else, is a place of enforced banality. The sector
is not large; the  middle-class residential neighborhoods
do not have a thriving nightlife, forcing the local Kindred
to compete for relatively scarce resources.

Reports  of  violence,  an  unexpected  rise  in  anemia
cases and increases in suspected gang activity force the
police and health officials to scrutinize the district more
closely. This concerns the Camarilla’s leaders, since they
hope  to  weather  the  current  situation  and  retake  San
Francisco with no breaches of the Masquerade.

As with both of the more prison-like M-Ts, the hawks
of  the  Quincunx  watch  the  periphery  of  the  Sunset
closely, intent on curtailing the freedoms of San Francisco’
s  less  desirable  Kindred.  The  Quincunx  carefully  logs
every infraction against its regulations, which it then cites
as evidence against the Kindred population in general.

Within this Empty, the mood is anxious. Most Kindred
assigned here know what brought them to Sunset in the
first  place.  Some  do  not.  In  theory,  those  exhibiting  a
pattern of behaving in accordance with the Quincunx’ s
policies stand a chance of earning reassignment to a better
M-T Sector. In reality, it is unlikely anything short of abject
collusion with the Kuei-jin would better the situation of
any Kindred sent here. Besides, most vampires reassigned
from Sunset to SoMa instantly become an object of suspicion
by the Camarilla’s more savvy representatives.

Sunset’s Kindred are the most divorced from the city’s
proceedings.  Some  see  their  assignment  to  Sunset  as
further proof that the Kuei-jin are simply evil bastards.
Others take their appointment here as a sign that perhaps
it’ s time to acknowledge the new status quo and make
amends with the city’s new masters before the Quincunx
sends them to Bayview. The rest see their relocation here
as proof that it’s  time to leave San Francisco for a city
where  the  Camarilla  holds  sway,  leaving  the  Kuei-jin
perfectly happy to see them go. It only helps nudge the
balance of power a further in their favor.

Malkavians  constitute  a  large  portion  of  Sunset’s
vampires, along with the few Nosferatu who did not flee
the  surface  world  for  San  Francisco’s  extensive  tunnel
system (see p. 52). More staunch Camarilla supporters
exist  here  than  in  any  other  M-T  Sector;  most  were
reassigned to Sunset because of their loyalty. Many of the
less politically savvy Ventrue wind up here as well, far
from their beloved Financial District.
BAYVIEW (M-T SECTOR)

Wall Rating: 9
When Kindred mention the Bayview M-T, it is with
the same trepidation mortals speak of life sentences in
MaxSec  prisons.  Those  vampires  who  earn  the  true
antipathy of the Kuei-jin receive relocation to the Bayview
Sector — what Kindred call  “the emptiest of the Empties.”
A  step  away  from  execution,  this  area  comprises  the
Hunters Point and Bayview neighborhoods. It’ s the last
stop for Western vampires in San Francisco. If a vampire

52

assigned to Bayview falls further out of Kuei-jin favor, the
Mandarinate  sends  him  to  Final  Death,  as  visibly  as
possible . This serves to remind rebels that San Francisco
remains  under  Quincunx  control,  and  they  rule  it  as
leniently or as harshly as they see fit.

Many of those assigned to Bayview are high generation
neonates who simply lack the status or resources to either
leave  San  Francisco  or  earn  reassignment  to  a  better
Empty. Many Brujah wind up in Bayview because their
short tempers and gruff mannerisms epitomize the Kuei-
jin’s stereotypes of “ barbaric Kin-jin.”

Once a run-down sector of San Francisco, Bayview and
Hunter’s Point were “improved”  when the city tore down
public housing and low-income neighborhoods to build a
sprawling genetic research industrial park. By day, an army of
underpaid lab techs and the scientists commanding them
swarm the area. By night, however, the entire complex clears
out; the compound’ s grounds are as sterile as its laboratories.
For this reason, a vampire is lucky if she catches a lab drone
working late because the other options for feeding —  the
occasional (strangely anemic) security guard, delivery driver,
or imprudent cab driver —  are sparse. Without the Herd
Background, those Kindred assigned to Hunters Point go
hungry  more  nights  than  not,  and  many  risk  venturing
beyond the M-T for feeding purposes.

It is worse than that, however. For years, the navy
maintained a base on Hunter’s Point. The slow pollution
and corruption of the Dragon Nest located here tainted
the region both physically and spiritually, creating the
beginnings of what the Cathayans call a “broken mirror,”
like a sore on the surface of the spirit world. Kuei-jin who
venture beyond the Wall (a difficult proposition, given its
local rating is never any lower than 8, and often 10 during
the day) find that the Yomi World stretches its pull out
over the spirit  world. Worse still, the spiritual corruption
manifests in the park’s genetic research. Suffice it to say
that vampires are not the most disturbing residents of the
Bayview M-T Sector. Not all those unfortunate Kindred
who disappear from here fall victim to the Kuei-jin….

Yosemite  Avenue,  3rd  Street  and  Amador  Street
hem in Bayview District on three sides, while the bay’s
shoreline to the east closes the box. This M-T is near both
3Com Park (formerly known as Candlestick Park) and
Bayview  park,  but  the  Kuei-jin  deliberately  chose  to
exclude  those  areas,  making  feeding  that  much  more
difficult  as    a  punitive  gesture.  The  Mandarinate  has
Tongs and some Kuei-jin patrolling the intervening streets
looking for Kindred feeding out of their assigned territory.
One element that makes Bayview such a nightmare is
that  the  Sabbat  settled  in  quite  comfortably.  Those
Camarilla Kindred who report the Sabbat’s presence to
the Quincunx are, for the most part, ignored. They can’t
be bothered discerning one barbarian tribe from another.
While Prince Winder knows Sabbat exist in San Francisco,
there’s not much she can do about it and, so long as the
Sabbat maintain a low profile, she has more important
matters to worry about.

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

Perhaps more horrifying than the Sabbat, however, is
the presence of a wu of akuma  in the service of Mikaboshi,
Lord of the Wicked City. These demon-ridden Kuei-jin
haunted the streets of San Francisco since before the New
Promise Mandarinate’s arrival, and the conflict between
the Quincunx and the Camarilla serves their master well.
The city’ s vampires know them only through rumors and
exaggerated stories, but they are all too real, and Bayview
is only a small sampling of their work. See Chapter Four
and Five for more information on the Hollow City wu.
THE SAN FRANCISCO UNDERGROUND
While San Francisco’s residents hear of the so-called
“Shanghai  tunnels”  running  under  the  city,  only  the
Nosferatu  truly  know  them.  This  vast  network  of
passageways, transit tunnels, utility  ducts, connected sub-
basements and fissures in the earth run, in some areas, as
deep as two hundred feet beneath the city streets.

Dating as far back as the late 19th century, planners
in San Francisco never saw the need to run pipes, cables
and transit routes over the city’s bumpy topography when
they could run them through  the hills. Using a myriad of
techniques,  San  Franciscans  dug,  bore  and  dynamited
shortcuts through the inconvenient geography; some for
pipes, others for traffic or mass-transit.

Between 1904 and 1965, San Francisco started and
then abandoned no fewer than 15 different tunnel projects.
The city covered up these partial tunnels and everyone
ignored or long since forgot about them —  except the
Nosferatu.  As  the  Sewer  Rats  well  know,  every    major
tunnel also spawns tens or hundreds of adjoining passages
for drainage, ventilation, lighting, etc., making even short
tunnels a wealth of hidden passageways. In typical paranoid
Nosferatu fashion, the sewer rats hid, reinforced and booby-
trapped many of these tunnels to dissuade curious trespassers.
When the Kuei-jin arrived in San Francisco in force,
the majority of local Nosferatu simply retreated back into
the tunnels, closing the secret doors and entrances behind
them.  Since  then,  they  scurry  beneath  the  streets,  the
only Kindred in the city with true freedom of movement.
Much to their frustration, the Kuei-jin find there is little
or nothing they can do about it currently.

The Kuei-jin presence is not large enough, nor does it
have the networks of contacts or even the Scarlet Screen Tong
members necessary to ferret out the Nosferatu from their many
hidey-holes. Once their numbers in San Francisco increase,
the Kuei-jin intend to deal with the infestation of tunnel-rats.
Until then, however, they’ve made do with security precautions
safeguarding their havens from entry from below.

Although not many Nosferatu exist in San Francisco
(though their numbers rise), those here are solid Camarilla
supporters who enjoy their soaring prestige since they offer
something other Kindred cannot: safe space free of Kuei-jin
interference.  Prince  Winder  and  other  Camarilla
representatives asked Kokopell Mana, the kachina of the
Nosferatu,  to  provide  space  for  occasional  meetings  so

CHAPTER THREE: UTOPIA LOST

Kindred  can  speak  freely  without  fear  of  upsetting  the
delicately balanced tower of swords that is San Francisco.
Kokopell Mana is an ardent supporter of Prince Winder
and  has    gladly  complied.  She  would  even  offer  the
Nosferatu’s  services  for  free,  but  the  other  Sewer  Rats
constantly entreaty her to “barter.”

The  space  provided  by  the  Nosferatu  for  these
discussions is beneath Mt. Sutro, in a tunnel begun in
1914 and then abandoned and covered over. Those few
Kindred  who  know  of  its  whereabouts  call  the  space
Downtown Atlantis; it  is Prince Winder’ s favorite place
to meet with other Camarilla Kindred. Not only do the
Nosferatu  provide  the  space,  they  also  vouch  for  its
security from surveillance devices. Needless to say, neither
Jochen Van Nuys nor any of his allies or coterie know
about Downtown Atlantis. As far as Prince Winder and
her primogen are concerned, telling Van Nuys about this
location is tantamount to conducting a guided tour for the
entire Quincunx leadership.

The other service the Nosferatu provide is their so-
called  “Underground  Railroad,”  which  allows  other
Kindred to move around the city (in and out of the M-T
Sectors) with relative freedom… for a price. The Nosferatu
dole out this service sparingly and only to trusted customers,
but provide it free of monetary cost to Prince Winder’s

53

and  the  primogen’s  emissaries.  Needless  to  say,  the
Nosferatu and Kokopell Mana the kachina gain boons by
the  handful,  though  whether  they  will  possess  the
opportunity to cash them in remains to be seen.

Other Kindred must pay what they can, but the tunnel-
rats  are  shrewd  traders.  The  Nosferatu  blindfold  their
“passengers,” assigning them a guide through the tunnels to
ensure the visitors don’ t discover the location of important
passages. The Nosferatu claim this prevents their secrets
from falling into the Mandarinate’s hands, but the truth is
they don’ t care to share their underground monopoly with
any outsiders. Some Kindred grouse about having to trust
the Nosferatu, who take great delight in their discomfort.
For those looking for a secure means of traveling across the
city , however, there aren’t many better options.

The tunnels and passages of the underground figure
prominently in Prince Winder’s strategies take San Francisco
back. For now, though, they are simply one domain where
Kindred remain relatively free of Quincunx control.
OUTSIDE THE CITY

Although the New Promise Mandarinate maintains a
fairly  stable  grip  on  San  Francisco  proper,  the  area

54

surrounding  the  city  is  presently  outside  the  Kuei-jin’s
reach. The Tremere-emplaced wards prevent the Kuei-
jin from leaving in any large numbers, containing them in
San Francisco for the time being. This allows the Camarilla
to  reinforce  their  positions  around  the  Bay  Area,  in
preparation for future conflicts with the Cathayans.

The Kuei-jin, however, have few reasons for leaving San
Francisco  aside  from  helping  their  allies  consolidate  Los
Angeles, and are more concerned about solidifying their grip
on the city at the moment. Still, there is more activity in the
area around San Francisco than in quite some time.
THE ROCK: ALCATRAZ

Alcatraz was never no good for nobody.
— Frank Wathernam, last inmate to leave Alcatraz

(March 21, 1963)

Wall Rating: 7
The rocky island Alcatraz is the one area outside San
Francisco proper under the sway of the Kuei-jin. With
their mobility limited by the Tremere wards, the Cathayans
took measures to ensure the water routes in and out of the
Bay  Area  remain  under  their  control.  Alcatraz  (and
nearby Angel Island) are way stations of sorts for Kuei-jin
entering the city. The island is under the supervision of
the  federal  government,  however,  and  is  also  home  to
various spirits, so the Kuei-jin must tread carefully.

The island’s name derives from the Spanish Alcatraces,
or “pelicans,” because it was originally the nesting place
for sea birds. Now in the hands of the national park service
it becomes so again, with many different species of gulls,
pelicans and other birds coming to nest in and around the
crumbling prison walls.

The island originally held a military fort to defend the bay,
which was converted into a military prison during the Civil
War.  It  remained  so  until  the  1930s,  when  Alcatraz  was
transferred to the U.S. Justice Department and made a civilian
penitentiary.  Warden  James  Johnston  decided  Alcatraz’s
purpose was not rehabilitation, but punishment of prisoners.
He instituted draconian regulations. “You are entitled to food,
clothing, shelter and medical attention. Anything else you get
is a privilege,” said the prison’s Rules and Regulations. Alcatraz’s
inmates included the infamous Al Capone, George “Machine
Gun” Kelly and Robert Stroud, the so-called “Birdman of
Alcatraz”  (who actually kept birds in the previous prison in
which he was incarcerated, but none here).

“The Rock” was said to be inescapable, although there
were some attempts. In 1946 a breakout resulted in a bloody
siege  where  several  guards  and  prisoners  died.  The  most
famous flight happened in 1962, when three prisoners (Frank
Lee Morris, John William Anglin and his brother Clarence
Anglin) did actually escape the island. They disappeared and
were never seen again, but it remains unknown if they made
it to freedom or drowned trying to swim across the bay. Not
long after the famous prison-break, the federal government
shut down Alcatraz, shipping the prisoners off to other facilities.
In 1969, a group of ninety Native Americans led by
Richard Oakes occupied Alcatraz and claimed it as Indian

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

territory.  They  offered  to  buy  the  island  from  the  US
government  for  $24  worth  of  beads  and  cloth,  the  same
amount given to their people for a similar-sized area of land.
The government refused, but the Indian occupation lasted
for nineteen months before government troops finally made
their way onto the island and removed the last few hangers-
on (most of the others left of their own free will months
before). A few years later, Alcatraz was turned over to the
National Parks Service and opened as a tourist attraction.
The Kindred inhabitants of San Francisco never paid
much attention to Alcatraz. It was simply  a crumbling prison
on a windswept rock out in the bay. Its only real use was
drawing thousands of tourists to the area each year, providing
some prey for Kindred walking along the waterfront at night.
This made the Rock well suited to the needs of the New
Promise Mandarinate. An agreement negotiated with the
Golden Court of the Dragon King of the Sea (see p. 74)
permitted the Kuei-jin to use the island during their initial
incursions into the city, and they have since made Alcatraz
a stopover for Kuei-jin  leaving Frisco by water.

Kuei-jin practiced in Treading the Thrashing Dragon’s
Tail (Kindred of the East, p. 113) can run across the surface
of San Francisco Bay to the island and back in the course of
a night. Otherwise, they can run out to the island and  from
there to the beautiful Marin Headlands, Angel Island, or
elsewhere.  The  New  Promise  Mandarinate  maintains  a
small number of Kuei-jin on the island to assist visitors and
ward  off  intruders,  but  Alcatraz’  s  best  defenses  are  its
isolation and the trouble incurred in reaching it.

One difficulty Kuei-jin face on the island comes from
restless  ghosts  in  the  Yin  World  surrounding  the  old
prison. Necromancers hope to speak with these shades
and perhaps offer them the assistance of the Mandarinate
in  exchange    for  their  cooperation.  It  appears  the  old
prison is something of a shelter against the storm raging in
the Yin World, so Bone Flower Kuei-jin believe it is likely
that  other ghosts and spirits will find their way there over
time; in either case, the Mandarinate must be prepared.
Gaining control of Alcatraz (or  securing the assistance
of its ghostly inhabitants) might give the Camarilla an
edge in hemming in the Kuei-jin and in cutting potential
reinforcements from oversees. Still, the island is not one
of the major fronts in the Camarilla-Mandarinate conflict.
NORTH: WOLVES AND WILDS

The San Francisco Peninsula terminates in the cold
waters of San Francisco Bay. The Golden Gate Bridge is
the only way to cross over into Marin County by car and,
unfortunately for Kuei-jin, they cannot travel across it or
the  two other bridges off the peninsula because of Clan
Tremere’s machinations.

Once across the bridge, civilization rapidly surrenders to
open  green  space,  ending  San  Francisco’s  cosmopolitan
ambiance. There is not another city of any significance to the
Kuei-jin (i.e., one with a significant Asian community) until
Portland, Oregon, over a thousand miles to the north. The
intervening  territory  comprises  large  tracts  of  sparsely

CHAPTER THREE: UTOPIA LOST

populated land — forest preserves, farmland and state and
national parks  — that are naturally hostile to the Asian
vampires. Of course, the martially inclined Camarilla has
made it all the more deadly through strategic countermeasures
including  sentries  in  various  towns  and  ghouled  law
enforcement personnel supervising the various thoroughfares.
Why  the  Kuei-jin  might  want  it:  Having  very
effectively routed the Kin-jin’ s efforts to enter mainland
China  via  their  foothold  in  Hong  Kong,  the  Kuei-jin
recognize how insignificant one small chunk of land can
be, even if it is a major city. Ideally, the Kuei-jin would
like to link their holdings in Vancouver and San Francisco
along an occupied corridor of control (including Seattle
and possibly Portland as well). Doing so, while immensely
difficult,  gives  them  a  potent  base  of  operations  from
which to make headway into the rest of the continent.
What stands in their way: Between San Francisco
and Portland (and again between Portland-Seattle and
Seattle-Vancouver) lie vast expanses of rural and semi-
rural wilderness, woodlands and farmlands. With only a
handful of exceptions, the region’s werewolf population is
greater than almost anywhere else in the world. The Kuei-
jin already sent, and lost, several Thrashing Dragon and
Bone Flower “peace envoys”  to the Lupines. While the
werewolves hate Kindred, the Western bloodsuckers are
a foe they fought for literal millennia. On the other hand,
they regard Kuei-jin as a new menace and another sign of
impending  calamity.  To  worsen  matters,  the  Lupines
know Asian lumber interests deforested large tracts of the
Far  East,  and  are  currently  doing  the  same  in  South
America through proxies. The Lupines don’ t want the
same  problems  arising  here  through  the  invasion.  As
such,  the  xenophobic  werewolves  reserve  a  particular
distrust for the Kuei-jin and attack them on sight.

For most Kuei-jin, however, the point is moot. They
rarely  worry  about  seeing  a  werewolf  because  the
Camarilla’s crusade to turn the land around San Francisco
into a “Cathayan-Free Zone” effectively limits the passage
of Lupines… supposedly. The Camarilla has fair influence
in and around the vineyard country to the north of San
Francisco, with its expensive estates and exclusive wineries.
The  Camarilla  takes  steps  to  maintain  their  influence
here by ghouling more families, and keeps a close watch
for any signs of Cathayan incursions. In particular, they
watch for Cathayans who might arrive from the north and
try  reaching  San  Francisco  by  water.  Thus  far  there
haven’t  been  any  such  attempts,  but  the  Camarilla’  s
hounds remain vigilant nonetheless.
EAST: HOSTILE NATIVES

Across  the  bay  from  San  Francisco  lies  Oakland,
slightly  to  the  north  of  which  is  Berkeley.  The  two
combined form the core of what folks typically call the
East Bay (which, by the most expansive definitions, runs
from Richmond at the  opening of San Pablo Bay all the
way down to the town of San Leandro).

55

The East Bay has had its own Prince for several decades;
the  same  one,  in  fact.  Until  recently,  Prince  Amanda
Koller was so thoroughly overshadowed by the would-be
luminaries controlling the gem of San Francisco that even
those Camarilla members specialized in intelligence were
uncertain  of  her  ambitions  and  loyalties.  Now  Prince
Koller has the opportunity to demonstrate her diligence
and cooperation to the Camarilla and the Inner Circle.
She’s eager to do so, since her previous support of Jochen
Van Nuys makes her motives suspect to some in the sect.
Prince Koller vocally supports Prince Winder and the
efforts to reclaim San Francisco from the Cathayans …
but  not  too  quickly.  She  knows    that  a  Camarilla  San
Francisco means less prestige and attention focused on
the East Bay. Her domain is now haven for Kindred who
fled the city, but don’t  want to venture too far (given the
hazards of traveling in the Lupine-controlled rural areas).
That  makes  Prince  Koller  a  heroine  of  sorts  to  some
Kindred, earning her considerable boons in exchange for
sheltering homeless vampires.

Never  arrogantly  ambitious  before,  Amanda  Koller
realizes she likes the taste of power she’s been given. She
remains staunchly loyal to the Camarilla, but she wouldn’ t
mind if Sara Anne Winder spectacularly failed to overcome
the New Promise Mandarinate while still dealing it a crippling
blow. Just enough so that someone else, say the Prince of a
nearby domain, could move in, win a victory for the Camarilla
and perhaps become Prince for the entire Bay Area.

Why the Kuei-jin might want it: At its most ambitious
the Quincunx might —  might — want to expand east as
far as the East Bay, but not much beyond Oakland and
Berkeley. There is nothing farther inland of appeal to the
Kuei-jin  on  any  level.  Even  the  East  Bay’s  Asian
community is limited by Kuei-jin standards.

What stands in their way: The most obvious obstacles
to  marching  east  are  the  warded  bridges  and  monitored
waterways (though once the Kuei-jin decide to bring the
wards down, it heralds a full-scale invasion). Then there are
the  vigilant  Kin-jin  of  the  East  Bay,  who  are  far  more
prepared for an assault than San Francisco’ s vampires were.
Backed by the Camarilla, they will put up a stiff resistance.
Additionally, the farther east one ventures, the weaker
the Asian clout becomes. While most of North America’s
West Coast has a relatively large Asian population, that
presence  dissipates  almost  completely  even  ten  miles
inland.  By  the  time  one  reaches  the  small,  very  white
cities  of  Concord,  Walnut  Creek,  or  San  Ramon,  it  is
difficult — if not impossible —  for the Kuei-jin to pass
unnoticed. Only those Bone Flowers and Rootless Trees
adept at such tricks can effectively disguise themselves as
Westerners.  Those  few  Kuei-jin  originating  in  the
Philippines  sometimes  pass  themselves  off  as  Hispanic
thanks to their common Spanish base, but unless they
speak sans accent, that too can be problematic.

A  far  more  likely  approach,  one  the  Kuei-jin  take,  is
sending the occasional spy over into the East Bay (with the

56

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

PROJECT: CROSSHAIRS

Under the direction of Luna Demian, the Tremere
chantries in Sacramento and Las Vegas, two cities not
under immediate threat of Kuei-jin invasion, reorganized
into full-time research chantries where the Warlocks
take captured Asian vampires for… study.

At the suggestion of Martin Franckel, this endeavor
was given the title Project: Crosshairs. Among the program’s
first fruits was the discovery that Cathayans cannot be
blood-bound. That setback was counterbalanced, however,
by the creation of the powerful Ward versus Cathayans,
which  the  Kindred  seemingly  put  to  good  use  in  the
Ventrue’s CFZ campaign (see p. 39 for details). While
there is much the Tremere still don’ t know about Cathayan
origins and physiology, some of the clan’s best experimental
Thaumaturgists look for weaknesses in their new enemies;
their research is fruitful.

Prince Winder observed that Cathayans appear
either unwilling or unable to Embrace those outside of
Asian extraction. By contrast, the Camarilla has the
strategic  advantage  of  being  able  and  willing  to
Embrace anyone, including ethnic Asians who could,
with some effort and training in the right Disciplines,
masquerade  as  Cathayans.  The  Camarilla  waits  for
Cathayans of Caucasian descent to show up, but given
recent discoveries, they consider this highly unlikely.
Project:  Crosshairs’  investigators  recently
uncovered some other astounding findings as well. By
nearly exsanguinating a captured Cathayan and feeding
her blood to a mortal, the Cathayan’ s blood created
neither blood bond nor ghoul. When given to a dying
mortal, the mortal did not take the Embrace. Regent
Demian believes the process may either require consent
on the part of the Kuei-jin or the Embrace may not be
the mechanism by which Cathayans “procreate.”

This windfall of information, however, remains the
privilege of a handful of upper echelon Tremere, Prince
Winder and the Inner Circle. The reason for their reticence

in sharing this information is two-fold. For starters, the
Kuei-jin method of genesis remains unknown, and the
Inner Circle is unsure if it faces an opponent who can
breed like a disease, if the Embrace is a seasonal, celestial
or ritual affair, or if Kuei-jin simply appear. Until they
understand this matter fully, the Inner Circle will not
launch a dedicated campaign against the Cathayans.

Secondly, the Camarilla’s elders fear that if neonates
discover the Kuei-jin do not Embrace normally, they
may assume this a sign of weakness and partake of mass
Embraces to generate instant armies against the Kuei-
jin. The Inner Circle is horrified by the possibility of
neonates  partaking  in  Sabbat-inspired  techniques  to
win wars and endanger the Masquerade. So, for the time
being, the vampires in the know remain silent, but the
matter of the Embrace is just another difference that
makes  the  Cathayans  seem  absolutely  alien  to  the
Camarilla’s more xenophobic members.

For the moment, Prince Winder ponders exactly
how to apply this information. On one hand, the sooner
she ousts the Cathayans from the city, the better. On the
other  hand,  there’  s  a  certain  strategic  advantage  to
ensuring the Kuei-jin sufficiently weaken the anarchs,
allowing  the  Camarilla  to  sweep  in  and  retake  Los
Angeles once the Cathayan menace is eliminated.

In  the  meantime,  Camarilla  Kindred  continue
sending captured Cathayans to Project: Crosshairs for
use as guinea pigs. The chantries involved in Project:
Crosshairs become the two most frequently requested
assignments by transferring Tremere. The opportunity
for  experimentation  combined  with  the  recognition
from serving in an important capacity during wartime
means gaining clan prestige is far easier here than most
other places. Luna Demian is only accepting the most
talented applicants and requesting more Cathayans for
her  experiments.  With  enough  subjects,  who  knows
what other fascinating facts the Tremere may discover
about the Cathayans?

assistance of Wan Zhu’s Writ of Protected Passage, see p.130)
to monitor the Camarilla’ s activities. These Kuei-jin (nearly
always Bone Flowers or Rootless Trees) gather information
and take the opportunity to sow dissent among the gathered
Kin-jin in East Bay. Such actions might include spying on a
vampire and arranging that his enemy receive the information
or  breaking into a haven and leaving behind incriminating
evidence that frames someone else. This hinders the Kindred
from unifying and aiding Camarilla efforts in retaking the city.
Such “random acts of violence”  also support the Mandarinate’s
need to maintain control over the city to “prevent such trouble
from spreading to San Francisco.”
SOUTH: THE SILICON CITADEL

The  San  Francisco  Peninsula  extends  roughly  forty
miles  south  of  the  city  before  it  rejoins  the  mainland.

Although the peninsula is never wider than thirty miles, it is
dramatically divided. The peninsula’ s western and eastern
lengths are as different as Yin and Yang. Small tourist towns,
rocky cliffs, beaches, grassland and the San Francisco State
Fish  and  Wildlife  Refuge  occupy  75%  of  the  peninsula
closest  to  the  Pacific  Ocean.  With  the  exception  of  the
occasional  hardy  Gangrel,  very  few  vampires  find  much
allure here given the looming threat of Lupine attacks.

Both Kindred and Kuei-jin occasionally use the rocky
beaches along the peninsula’s western side for discreet nighttime
arrivals  or  departures,  usually  to  avoid  the  watchful  eyes
around San Francisco’ s waterfront. Such a travel method has
its own risks, of course, particularly with Lupines in the area.
Otherwise, neither side has much interest in this region.

The peninsula’s eastern quarter, on the bay side, is a
five- to ten-mile wide corridor extending from San Francisco

CHAPTER THREE: UTOPIA LOST

to San Jose fifty miles to the south. It comprises what people
commonly call Silicon Valley, the immensely rich center of
the world’s computer industry. On paper, San Francisco is
a discrete municipal entity. In point of fact, it  is simply the
glittering capstone in an unbroken megalopolis that extends
south through no fewer than fourteen smaller cities and
terminates in the San Jose metropolitan area.

Why the Kuei-jin might want it: There is no question
that the Kuei-jin want San Jose. With their near- conquest of
San Francisco, invading San Jose allows the Quincunx control
over one of the most affluent and effectual metropolitan areas
in the world. It is also a move toward establishing a corridor of
power that extends down the coast to Los Angeles.

As  an  additional  incentive,  San  Jose’s  Kin-jin
population is oddly low for a city of its size. Most vampires
in the region, it seems, prefer stalking the more glamorous
San Francisco, and that makes San Jose an easy target.

That, however, is not the only appeal. In the ’ 70s,
San  Jose  was  the  resettling  ground  for  thousands  of
Vietnamese  refugees;  the  ancestors  believe  the  Asian
presence  is  large  enough  to  support  a  self-renewing
population of Kuei-jin. There is, however, a problem.

What stands in their way: In the over thirty years
since  coming  to  America,  San  Jose’  s  Vietnamese
population has done everything in its power to assume an
American  identity.  With  the  exception  of  pho  noodle
houses  and  a  few  small  community  organizations,  San
Jose’s Asian population is thoroughly Westernized.

The generations born in America forsook their parents’
ways as “stodgy” and “antiquated”  and enthusiastically
dove into the MTV, Taco Bell and Western consumer
culture. While these subsequent generations are ethnically
Asian, they don’t have enough connection to the Middle
Kingdom to generate new Kuei-jin, which weakens the
Quincunx’s enthusiasm for San Jose considerably.

Then, of course, there’s the Camarilla. San Jose’s Ventrue
Prince Allison Noyes is as staunch a conservative as can be
found  in  the  Camarilla.  Her  supporters  describe  her  as
unswervingly loyal and generous to excess. Her opponents call
her the cruelest bitch this side of a Sabbat interrogator. While
it  is  true  her  opposition  frequently  disappear,  San  Jose’s
vampires grow accustomed to the order and peace brought
about by her firm control… they’re almost complacent.

Unlike those cites where primogen councils change on an
almost weekly basis, San Jose’s primogen has remained the
same for over a decade. When the Gangrel left the Camarilla,
Prince Noyes asked the Gangrel primogen to continue acting
as such to represent his clan-members residing in nearby parks
and forest preserves. To her credit, he obliged.

To complicate matters for the Kuei-jin,  the Toreador
primogen Binh Nguyen and Gangrel scourge Joseph Thuc
Vu (both of Vietnamese extraction) harbor a hatred of
Kuei-jin that some say borders on rabid. While these two
stalwart Camarilla supporters supply their sect with any
information they possess on the Kuei-jin, their information
is tainted from years of fighting Vietnam’s Green Snake
wu, an enemy they don’t understand. Nguyen and Thuc
Vu already told the Tremere that Kuei-jin blood doesn’ t

57

blood bond anyone, but the Tremere still double-checked
their facts. Conversely, Thuc Vu also claims the Kuei-jin
may  originate  from  Zao-lat,  who  he  believes  is  Saulot.
This claim is further exacerbated by Kuei-jin practitioners
of the Chi’ iu Muh Discipline, which generates a third eye
on the practitioner’s forehead. Needless to say, the Tremere
were  exceedingly  unhappy  upon  discovering  this,  and
now pursue this potential avenue of investigation.
DRAGON NESTS AND FENG SHUI

Chinese geomancy is called feng shui, meaning “wind
and water.” It comprises a body of lore that teaches the feng
shui practitioner (called a fang shih ) to recognize dragon lines
and nests, and to arrange other elements (people, buildings,
etc.) in proper harmony. This ensures the dragon remains
healthy and happy, thereby assuring those in the vicinity of
a flow of good luck and protection against misfortune.

Landscapes, cities, buildings and rooms all have their
proper relationship to dragon lines and nests. They all
must have the right balance of the five elements to blend
harmoniously with an area’ s Chi patterns. Likewise, the
shape of certain buildings hinders or assists the flow of
good fortune through a neighborhood; a building that is
too angular can direct “poison arrows” of bad joss  toward
neighboring buildings or geographical features and spread
disharmony.  Mikaboshi’s  Wicked  City  exemplifies  the
resulting  horrors  of  a  city  deliberately  engineered  to
channel and focus negative energy and corrupted Chi.
Fang shih, for the most part, try to arrange the world in
harmonious accord with the great sleeping dragons.

Dragon lines and nests are aptly named; the terms aren’t
simply colorful metaphors describing a phenomenon, but
insights feng shui practitioners possess into the world. The
great dragons of Chinese lore are not the overgrown lizards
of Western mythology, but great spiritual beings whose vast
bodies are only partially visible in the natural phenomena
they embody: storms, mountain ranges, tsunamis, etc.

Fang shih excel at finding the hints and traces of slumbering
dragons in valleys, mountains and hills. Those untrained in
the ways of feng shui  typically cannot perceive even the most
obvious dragons until the dragon rouses enough to slip from
slumber  and  manifest  in  some  capacity.  Fortunately  for
humanity, this is a rare thing at the end of the Fifth Age.

The great dragons do not simply rest in a place, they become it
by melding their bodies and spiritual essence with the landscape
itself  (curiously,  the  Tzimisce  seemingly  grasp  this  concept
immediately). The bones of the Earth Dragons become the hills,
while their eyes become the pools and lakes. The aptly named
“dragon lines” are the flow of the dragon’ s spiritual essence through
its body as it melds with the world. There are, of course, other dragons
representing the four remaining elements. Fang shih  can see dragons
of air in the clouds, dragons of water in a pattern of waves and dragons
of wood in the forests. Unfortunately, at this point in the Fifth Age,
the dragons rarely stir enough to emerge from the natural world and
make themselves visible to the untrained.

Fang shih claim the interaction of elemental dragons is
responsible  for  much  in  the  natural  world:  flooding,  for

58

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

instance, is often the outcome of feuds between dragons of
water and dragons of earth. Feng shui, the fang shih claim, can
help the great hidden dragons coexist while concomitantly
bettering life for those living within their spheres of influence.
Several fang shih Kuei-jin, Ch’in Ta and humans claim
the  northern  half  of  the  San  Francisco  Peninsula  is  the
resting  grounds  for  one  of  the  great  slumbering  Dragon
Generals of Heaven. The more experienced among them
point to his outline and can tell you which of his scales are
nearest the surface and easiest to access. It is his benevolent
will that grants San Francisco such good native feng shui.
Unfortunately  the  Trans-AmericaBuilding,  among  other
things, provokes his ire as well.

San Francisco was, from its inception, blessed with a
very  auspicious  combination  of  water,  wind  and  earth.
Before  its  settlement  by  European  immigrants,  the  Bay
Area  was  devoid  of  the  geographical  traps  that  allowed
negative  joss    to  pool  and  fester.  The  peninsula  itself
benefited from a constant flow of cooling Yin Chi from the
water and the fog for which the Bay Area is known. Fang
shih  claim this is due to an ancient romance between a great
dragon general of earth and a great dragon general of the air.
As densely populated settlements developed in the
Bay Area, the great dragon grew uncomfortable. Combined
with  hopeful  gold  miners  drilling  the  land  and  the
increasing drain various shen  placed on the dragon, it
shifted  position  and  rearranged  the  local  dragon  lines.
This event is known as the Great Earthquake of 1906.
When a great dragon stirs, the location of all the dragon
lines in the area shift as well, just as the position of the
muscles and arteries change when a sleeping person rolls
over. This allows tapped or interrupted dragon lines to
flow freely again. Just as the earthquake of 1906 was the
slow response to the mining and settlement of the region,
so too was the Loma Prieta earthquake a response to the
local construction of inauspicious buildings.

The great spate of Bay Area development from the
end  of  the  19th  century  on  was  problematic  for  the
slumbering dragon, but it simply raised its tolerances and
returned  to  hibernation.  With  the  construction  of  the
Trans-AmericaTower in the early sixties, however, San
Francisco’s residents created a significantly negative impact
on  the  city’s  naturally  healthy  feng  shui.  The  Trans-
AmericaTower is too sharp and angular for the otherwise
rounded and flowing landscape, like a dagger planted in
the  center  of  the  peninsula’  s  chest.  Its  sharp  angles
created poison arrows that radiated both out and up. That
single  building  became  an  enormous  negative  Chi
generator affecting the entire region. Obviously, it took
some time for the effects of one building to counter the
naturally beneficial flow of Chi, but if it has had such an
impact in the space of four decades, fang shih  can only
imagine the damage it will incur before it is destroyed.

High on the list of priorities for some of the Quincunx’s
feng  shui  practitioners  is  the  economic  undermining  of
businesses in the Trans-AmericaTower. Since it sprays its
negative  Chi  right  at  Chinatown,  locals  erected  gates,

CHAPTER THREE: UTOPIA LOST

THE WALL

59

As a function of its good feng shui, San Francisco
is historically a powerful lure for benevolent spirits
and ghosts. The city’s “good vibe”  is evident to many
residing here on both sides of the Wall. Furthermore,
the Wall rating in San Francisco is quite low for a
populated area: Between 5 and 7 throughout the city,
but not uncommonly as low as 2 in select locations at
the right time. The city by the bay also exerts a strong
pull for those sensitive to the spirits: artists, mediums,
mystics,  shapeshifters,  changelings  and  similar
bohemian and gifted folk.

Unfortunately  for  those  same  populations,  the
days  of  easy  access  to  San  Francisco’  s  spirit  world
appear at an end. Throughout the nineties, human
business interests (backed, at various times, by both
the Ventrue and factions of tech-savvy mages) have
very  effectively  reinforced  the  Wall  just  in  time  to
handicap  the  invading  Kuei-jin.  The  corruption  of
the dragon nest in Hunter’s Point made reaching the
Yin  and  Yang  Worlds  more  difficult,  while  the

gentrification  of  the  city  drove  away  many  people
sensitive to the needs of the spirit world.

By  the  time  the  Kuei-jin  arrived,  the  problem
reached  alarming  proportions.  Where  once  San
Francisco’  s  Wall  was  thin  and  stable,  it  is  now
thickening, though admittedly not to the degree of
most major North American cities. Still, some areas
grow thicker and more impenetrable scabs, as seen in
the Wall Ratings of the city’s various neighborhoods.
The Kuei-jin heap the blame at the feet of the
spiritually  blind  and  corrupt  Kin-jin,  but  the
Mandarinate’s  measures  dealing  with  the  problem
only  worsens  the  matter.  With  the  occupation’s
continuation, the Wall between the worlds pushes
them  further  apart,  while  the  Wall  between  San
Francisco  and  the  Yomi  World  crumbles  in  some
places.

Heaven quickly drifts away from the shen of San
Francisco, while Hell pushes ever closer to the surface.

fountains and other edifices specifically to mitigate the
Tower’s bad Chi. Among the more extreme fang shih there
exist a few  dedicated to even stronger actions should their
stopgap measures fail… actions of an explosive nature.

The Kuei-jin are both in awe of the region’s naturally
harmonious Chi and horrified that San Franciscans, human
and vampire alike, can’t see what they’ re doing to the
spiritual landscape. A city is lucky if it has a single dragon
nest or line running through it. San Francisco boasts no
fewer  than  four  dragon  nests,  a  surfeit  of  blessings  the
Quincunx is eager to capitalize on.

The  city’s  strongest  and  healthiest  dragon  nest
stretches south and west from the northernmost point of
the Presidio. It includes most of Lincoln and Golden Gate
Parks and offers many homes in Richmond district some
of the best native  feng shui in the world. This is, in part,
why Richmond contains such a large Chinese population:
they knew how to read the landscape properly and align
their homes with the flow of good joss.

Next up is the great slab of bedrock called the scale of the
Great Dragon General by fang shih . It juts up in the topographical
heart of San Francisco, and stretches west from the Castro
district up to the hills called Twin Peaks. The ground here is
so stable that its houses remain unaffected by even the worst
earthquakes. This, claim the  fang shih, is because the dragon
nest is located at the peninsula’s very center, and it is the center
where harmony and balance thrives.

The third dragon’s nest, and the last healthy one, is
situated in the center of Chinatown. Chinatown wound
up where it did for this very reason. The dragon wizard Li
T’ ien took note of the lines running through San Francisco

when  the  city  was  still  young,  and  counseled  his
countrymen  to  establish  their  presence  in  that  area.
Although the Kuei-jin fancy themselves firmly in control
of  this  dragon  nest,  the  truth  is  the  have  only  begun
plumbing its depths; others in Chinatown (like Li T’ ien)
know it more intimately. If they are not careful, the Kuei-
jin may find trouble in the heart of their own stronghold,
especially if Li T’ien uses the nest against them.

The fourth dragon nest is in the far southeast corner of
San Francisco, an area called Hunter’s Point, and is horribly
defiled.  The  American    Navy  controlled  the  region  for
many years, and their toxic chemicals saturated the soil,
blighting the spiritual landscape for several square blocks.
Unfortunately, the prognosis worsens. The Navy sold the
land to the Catellus Corporation (a subsidiary of Pentex),
which is now developing the enormous local biotechnology
research park. Since Hunter’s Point is largely built on a
landfill,  one  strong  earthquake  is  all  that’s  required  to
liquefy and spread toxic viscera into the city and ocean.

The corrupt dragon nest also lies within the bounds of
Bayview, the worst of the Munificent Transitioning Sectors.
The Kuei-jin are instinctively put off by the area’s bad joss
and believe it fitting to pen the worst Kin-jin here to root
about in their own filth and corruption. Unfortunately, the
creation of the M-T Sector and the depredations of the
Kindred only worsen the nest’ s spiritual corruption, leading
to the formation of a “broken mirror,” or rift into the Yomi
World. This suits the plans of the Yama King Mikaboshi,
whose servants, the Hollow City wu , operate in the area
(see Chapter Four for more information).

60

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

CHAPTER FOUR: SAN FRANCISCO NIGHTS

61

Chapter Four:
San Francisco
Nights

The coldest winter I ever saw was the summer I spent in San Francisco.
— attributed to Mark Twain

San Francisco is a diverse place. This is even true
among  the  local  shen,  particularly  following  the  New
Promise Mandarinate’ s arrival. Kuei-jin and Kindred,
all  of  different  ranks  and  backgrounds,  rub  shoulders
within  the  city’s  confines.  Above  all,  the  rule  of  the
Cloud Mandarins must maintain order among its unliving
populace.  The  Kuei-jin  gives  those  who  violate  San
Francisco’s peaceful facade cause to regret their actions.

THE RULE OF THE
MANDARINATE

The New Promise Mandarinate is a satellite arena
of the Quincunx’s August Courts, with dominion over
Los  Angeles  and  San  Francisco  (though  technically
dominion over North America’s Pacific coast, but its
influence doesn’t currently extend beyond those two
cities). The Mandarinate is a matter of pride for the
Quincunx’s Bestowed Ancestors, demonstrating their

ability  to  take  and  hold  Western  territory  and
illustrating the feasibility of the Great Leap Outward.
It’s a particularly powerful banner for the Extraordinary
Commission on the Rectification of Borders and the
Fence-Menders led by Jiejie Li. These factions maintain
a strong interest in the Mandarinate’s success.

The  Mandarinate  seeks  to  provide  structure  and
order in those cities under its mandate. It oversees all
matters  concerning  the  Kuei-jin  and  Kin-jin  and,
ideally,  includes  them  both  in  its  structure  and  its
goals, though many Kindred would disagree.
THE PERFECTED HIERARCHY

The New Promise Mandarinate’s hierarchy is similar
to  the  structure  of  most  Kuei-jin  courts,  with  a  few
concessions  for  the  unique  situations  extant  locally,
namely the inclusion of Kin-jin and the large Western
populations.  The  Mandarinate’s  willingness  to
compromise  permits  them  a  measure  of  success  in
relation to the Kin-jin. Such allowances do  not sit well

62

RANK AND DHARMA

Because San Francisco is a foreign court, hardly
considered an illustrious position among the Kuei-jin,
and because the Quincunx sustained so many losses in
the  invasion,  many  of  the  city’  s  vampires  hold
surprisingly high ranks relative to their advancement
in  their  Dharmas.  This  is  good  news  for  young,
ambitious  Kuei-jin  stifled  under  the  rule  of  their
centuries-old elders. A position as minister in the New
Promise  Mandarinate  may  not  be  as  prestigious  as
playing  minister  in,  say,  the  Blood  Court,  but  it’s
certainly a step up from playing a humble jina  in the
Middle Kingdom, according to some. Likewise, the
Cloud Mandarins would not hold such a lofty position
in the Five August Courts just yet.

  Of  course,  the  awarding  of  titles  and
responsibilities  to  such  youngsters  is  yet  another
reason why August Court conservatives believe the
New Promise Mandarinate is inauspicious and even
dangerous. If the Cloud Mandarins fail to keep the
peace and hold the Kin-jin at bay, it may be necessary
to replace them with older, more experienced leaders.

with the Bestowed Ancestors of the Quincunx, so the
Mandarinate  walks  a  careful  line  between  tradition
and innovation.
THE CLOUD MANDARINS

Topping San Francisco’s vampiric hierarchy are the
so-called Cloud Mandarins. These are the city’s highest-
ranking Kuei-jin, who are responsible for their wu  along
with  other  important  duties.  Normally,  an  ancestor
would supercede the mandarins and run the city, but the
Quincunx  has  yet  to  choose  one.  Technically,  the
Mandarinate is still “pacifying”  San Francisco and the
Cloud Mandarins have not agreed upon a single candidate
for  ancestorship.  Since  the  August  Courts  and  the
Ancestor of the Extraordinary Commission also withheld
their approval for the time being, San Francisco remains
without a central leader, leaving the Cloud Mandarins
as the highest local vampire authority.

  Unfortunately,  the  mandarins  lack  the  unity  of
purpose  provided  by  an  ancestor.  Although  they  work
together  to  maintain  Kuei-jin  power,  they  otherwise
pursue their own agendas (including seizing ancestorship).
This means they generally overlook various small matters
and rarely deal decisively with situations such as  the Kin-
jin control of Golden Gate Park, or the Nosferatu infesting
the  city’s  warrens.  The  Kindred  only  now  realize  the
Cloud Mandarins are not a unified front, though they are
unanimous when it comes to defending the city. The Kin-
jin are unable to press any advantage as of yet.
THE MINISTERS

Below  the  mandarins  are  various  ministers
appointed to oversee nightly matters. The two highest

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

ranking  officiates  here  are  Fu  Peng,  the  Minister  of
Eastern Affairs and Jochen Van Nuys, the Minister of
Western  Affairs  (and  the  Mandarinate’  s  highest-
ranking Kin-jin). Minister Fu Peng is in charge of all
matters involving the city’s Kuei-jin, reporting them to
the Cloud Mandarins and  implementing their decisions.
He  spends  significant  time  writing  and  presenting
reports, as well as quashing various small fires that are
beneath his superiors’ valuable attention.

Van  Nuys,  as  Minister  of  Western  Affairs,  is
responsible for the Kin-jin. He acts as the Mandarinate’s
mouthpiece in dealing with his people and ensures the
Kin-jin behave themselves and respect the Mandarinate’
s rules. Van Nuys likes maintaining the illusion he still
has  power  over  the  Kindred,  when  in  fact  he  is  no
longer  Prince.  Still,  Van  Nuys  does  wield  some
authority,  and  Kindred  who  want  to  stay  in  the
Mandarinate’ s good graces would do well to heed his
words. Van Nuys also implements efforts to integrate
the  Kin-jin  into  the  Mandarinate  by  teaching  them
“proper” behavior based on the August Courts’  system
of conduct. He does this in cooperation with Kuei-jin
mandarins  and  ministers,  but  finds  most  Kindred
reluctant  —  though  some  willingly  shift  allegiances
hoping to better their position.

Below the two main ministers are lesser (mostly Kuei-
jin) functionaries who oversee particular parts of the city
(such  as  Chinatown,  Japan  Center,  North  Bay  and  so
forth).  Kin-jin  ministers  under  Van  Nuys  supervise  the
Munificent  Transition  Sectors.  It’s  their  job  to  ensure
things run smoothly and remain free of trouble. Kin-jin
ministers  are  actually  stricter  than  their  Kuei-jin
counterparts,  simply  because  they  feel  more  pressure  to
perform  well  and  win  the  Mandarinate’s  approval.  This
naturally makes them even less popular with their fellow
Kindred, who consider them turncoats and boot-lickers.
On the other hand, the Kindred know that further trouble
in the M-T Sectors will likely involve Kuei-jin “ settling”
matters (probably through the Final Deaths of the agitators).
JINA AND DISCIPLES

Below  the  ministers  are  the  Kuei-jin  jina  and
disciples.  Like  their  leaders,  they  are  comparatively
young for their standing in society, but not overly so.
The majority of San Francisco’s Kuei-jin hail from the
August  Courts.  They  came  to  the  city  for  several
reasons: following the banner of either the Foreigner-
Vanquishing Crusaders or the Harmonious Menders of
Broken Fences, because they sought new opportunities
or  because they had good reason to immigrate from the
August  Courts.  Some  are  virtual  exiles  or  political
radicals,  fleeing  the  Quincunx’  s  growing  influence.
Only a minority constitutes Kuei-jin native to North
America, and the Five August Courts consider most of
these as hin (see below).

The jina and disciples have their duties to perform.
Many were members of wu  who arrived together and

CHAPTER FOUR: SAN FRANCISCO NIGHTS

continued working together under the guidance of a
local mandarin. Others study with their teachers and
handle the many tasks that need accomplishing, from
accounting of the city’s shen  population to maintaining
order outside the Munificent Transition Sectors. There
are many local opportunities for Kuei-jin of ambition
and drive.
HIN AND HEIMIN

The  lowest  ranks  for  San  Francisco’s  vampires
(other than the chih-mei) are the hin and heimin. As in
Kuei-jin society, the hin  conquered their shadow nature
but  have  not  yet  proven  their  worth  or  learned  the
lessons  necessary  to  function  in  society.  In  the
Mandarinate, this includes nearly all Kin-jin, regardless
their previous rank in Kindred society (with only a few
exceptions). The Mandarinate accords them the same
rights and expectations as Kuei-jin who emerged from
their first shadow soul. The Mandarinate permits them
to exist and feed, but otherwise affords them no rights
or  responsibilities  until  they  learn  proper  behavior.
Since this normally takes years, many Kindred believe
this categorization is simply a means of keeping them
subordinate. The Kuei-jin maintain that  they act as
fairly as possible, and that Kin-jin can obtain a high
position within the Mandarinate if they willingly play
by the rules.

 There is still some debate among the Cloud Mandarins
as  to  how  to  teach  the  Kin-jin.  Strict  traditionalists
maintain  that  their  regimen  should  include  speaking
proper Cantonese or Mandarin, so they can appreciate
the  holy  sutras  and  texts  in  their  original  form.  They
hardly expect foreign barbarians to truly understand the
Dharmas, but they demand that the barbarians at  least
try. The more practical and progressive mandarins are not
so  imperious,  allowing  instead  the  Kin-jin  to  learn  in
English; neither do they apply the same exacting standards
they  would  for  the  Middle  Kingdom’  s  Kuei-jin.  The
Quincunx criticizes this as sloppy and slipshod, but then
those leveling the criticisms feel there’s as much point in
educating a pig as there is in teaching the Kin-jin.

Given  the  need  to  invest  the  Kin-jin  in  the
Mandarinate’  s  success  more  rapidly  along  with  the
number  of  rootless  Kuei-jin  finding  their  way  to  San
Francisco,  the  mandarins  expanded  the  role  of  local
heimin. As “intermediaries,” the heimin  remain largely
outside the city’s social structure, while still maintaining
a definite place within it. Jochen Van Nuys, for example,
is technically considered heimin , an emissary between
the Kuei-jin and the Kindred (although the Quincunx
overlooks this point in Van Nuys’ presence). Likewise,
other  Kin-jin  functionaries  received  greater
responsibilities — by considering them heimin  — that
their rank as hin would normally prohibit. It’s a temporary
situation  satisfying  the  demand  of  Wan  Kuei  culture
that  everyone  has  their  place,  while  still  permitting
some flexibility.

63

KINDRED AND DHARMAS

The Kuei-jin do not expect Kindred educated by
the New Promise Mandarinate to take up Dharmas yet.
It is usually several years before any hin pursues the
Way, and even the most optimistic teachers believ e
the Kin-jin require longer, if it is even possible at all. As
yet, no Kindred follows a Dharma, though some Kindred
are quite intrigued by them. Whether or not a Kin-jin
can  pursue  the  Kuei-jin’  s  paths  of  enlightenment
remains to be seen, though the answer may shake the
foundations of both vampiric societies.
NIGHT TRAVEL IN SAN FRANCISCO

Two  main  factors  hem  local  vampire  traffic:  the
boundaries of the Munificent Transition Sectors and
the Tremere wards limiting Cathayan traffic into or out
of  San  Francisco.  Officially,  travel  within  the  city
remains unrestricted for Kuei-jin and Kindred  alike.
Realistically, however, the Kuei-jin confine Kin-jin to
their assigned M-T Sectors, and vampires who habitually
stray too far outside their zones simply vanish. Some
sector ministers issue stiff warnings and reminders to
their Kindred charges not to wander off,  while others
deal more harshly with violators. Unofficially, Kin-jin
found outside an M-T Sector are fair game for the Kuei-
jin,  though  the  Mandarinate  carefully  keeps  any
incidents quiet. The point is for Kindred to know that
leaving their sector means risking their own existence.
Not surprisingly, this policy contributes to the pressure-
cooker atmosphere within the M-T Sectors.

Some Kindred sneak out of their sections in various
ways.  The  bold  ones  simply  walk  out,  but  many  use
their herds to transport them around in car trunks or
use Obfuscate to disguise themselves. The Nosferatu
run a thriving market as a sort of  “underground railroad.”
The  network  of  tunnels  they  control  under  San
Francisco allows them somewhat free movement, and
they  willingly  provide  other  Kindred  passage  for  a
price. They also require the Kindred to wear a blindfold
and be led by Nosferatu guides, something the other
vampires are unhappy about but have little choice in
the matter.

The Cathayans know of the hazards of entering or
leaving  San  Francisco  via  the  bridges  or  the  BART
tunnel, particularly after the wards reduced a few Kuei-
jin to bloody smears. Experiments with unwitting Kin-
jin prove  the wards do not affect them in the slightest.
In  San  Francisco,  the  Kuei-jin  don’t  even  publicly
acknowledge  the  existence  of  the  wards,  and  act  as
though they aren’ t there (though few Kuei-jin leave
San Francisco these days). With Van Nuys, however,
the Cloud Mandarins threaten to execute Kin-jin until
the Camarilla drops the wards.

Secretly, this ploy is merely a smoke screen to both
boost  Van  Nuys’s  bargaining  posture  with  the  Inner

64

Circle and hide the fact that the Kuei-jin have  already
developed countermeasures against the wards, thanks
to Tremere collaborators Wan Zhu (p. 88) and Oliver
Thrace.  The  Writ  of  Protected  Passage  in  particular
must be created for a specific Kuei-jin, and it only lasts
a short while. To keep the Kindred from discovering
that  the Cathayans bypassed the wards, the Kuei-jin
use  the  writs  sparingly  and  for  select  agents  of  the
Cloud  Mandarins.  Let  the  Kin-jin  wonder  how  the
occasional Wan Kuei shows up outside their wards. Let
them believe it’s because of water routes.
CRIME AND PUNISHMENT

The  New  Promise  Mandarinate  maintains  it  is  a
just and honorable body seeking to enforce law within
San Francisco with a strict, yet fair, hand. Of course, in
this case “law” means the Great Principle of the Kuei-
jin (see  Kindred of the East, p. 38-41) rather than any
Kindred  tradition.  It’s  also  important  to  note  that
because the Kuei-jin consider most Kin-jin as lowly hin
, without any claims in vampire society, a Cathayan is
perfectly  within  his  rights  to  destroy  “an  offending”
Kin-jin for whatever perceived slight. Few Kuei-jin are
this militant, however, since the mandarins need the
Kin-jin’ s cooperation, not their hatred.

 The Cloud Mandarins maintain that the Way of
Obligation requires them to treat the Kin-jin fairly and
decently. They swiftly punish gross crimes committed by
either  side,  so  the  watchwords  in  the  New  Promise
Mandarinate are “don’ t get caught.” The Mandarinate
deals with any threats to its order and stability harshly,
and overlooks anything not threatening the infant court
(depending on the agenda of the mandarin(s) involved).
If a Kin-jin continually lands in trouble, however, the
Mandarinate deals with the offending vampire to teach
the  others  a  lesson.  Most  minor  punishments  include
transfer to a lower-status M-T Sector, a “public”  caning
(attended by the Kindred of a sector) or the severing of an
appendage. Afterward, ambushes and destruction are in
short order for any still-obstinate vampires.

THE NOCTURNAL
SAN FRANCISCO

Not  long  ago,  the  evenings  belonged  to  San
Francisco’s Kindred. They were its chief predators and
did largely as they pleased, so long as they didn’t violate
Prince Van Nuys’s  few rules or the Masquerade. Now,
with  the  New  Promise  Mandarinate  in  power,  San
Francisco’s nights suffer the depredations of two poachers,
the  Kuei-jin  and  the  Kindred.  There’s  an  edge  of
desperation to the hunting and nocturnal activities of
local  vampires.  The  war  for  survival  is  turning  into  a
quiet  holocaust,  and  the  following  months  may  see
vampires unwilling to go quietly into these Final Nights.

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

THE MASQUERADE

Prince Winder makes one thing abundantly clear to
San Francisco’ s Kindred: nobody breaks the Masquerade
unless she feels it warranted. Even then, the breach must
only  be  as  much  as  absolutely  necessary  to  oust  the
Cathayans.  In  the  meantime,  she  encourages  and
sometimes demands  the local Kindred maintain a low
profile and avoid any violations of the traditions. Like so
many of the Camarilla’s decrees, however, the Kindred
pay this one more lip service than actual practice.

Thus far there have been no blatant violations of
the  Masquerade,  but  prevailing  conditions  make
maintaining it more difficult. Hunting, in particular, is
increasingly troublesome in the crowded M-T Sectors,
so Kindred cover their nightly feedings by committing
violent crimes. Incidents of assault, murder and rape
increase in San Francisco, while stories attribute the
incidents to deranged homeless people and wandering
thugs.  Kindred  influence  with  local  police  and  news
agencies  sends  them  looking  the  other  way,  though
some wonder how long that state of affairs  can endure.
For their part, the Kuei-jin have long believed in
the value of subtlety, so they try not to advertise their
presence to mortals. Only a few people in Chinatown
know of the Hungry Dead around them, and most of
these are trusted vassals and Kuei-jin Scarlet Screens.
Outside of Chinatown, the Cathayans don’t possess as
much mortal influence as the Kindred — something
they plan to rectify.
THE COMMITTEE FOR PUBLIC VIGILANCE
One of Jochen Van Nuys’s tools for keeping order
among Kindred is the  Committee for Public Vigilance,
a tool the Camarilla once used to good effect against the
Sabbat. Van Nuys has revived the practice and is now
using against its creators. This new Committee consists
mostly of ghouls and a handful of vampires,  who monitor
the M-T Sectors and carry the sanction of Van Nuys and
the approval of the Kuei-jin. It is a kind of unofficial
police force, or scourges, working directly for the Minister
of the West.

Of course, the approval and sanction of the Mandarinate
and the Minister of the West means little to those Camarilla
members relegated to Castro or Bayview. Prince Winder
considers them collaborators. Additionally, rumors  claim
that Sabbat spies use the Committee to infiltrate the halls
of power, either to sow dissent or to attack and assassinate
Camarilla members. Van Nuys rejects these claims but does
little  to  investigate  them,  given  the  Committee  is  his
brainchild and his private militia.

The  Committee  members  are  often  thugs  or  even
former  anarchs  looking  for  cushy  positions  within  San
Francisco’s new order. Others are simply informants willing
to  spy  and  pass  information  along  to  Van  Nuys  or  his
underlings  concerning  subversive  elements  among  the
Kindred. They were either loyal to Van Nuys before the

CHAPTER FOUR: SAN FRANCISCO NIGHTS

Cathayans’  arrival or acquired since Van Nuys became a
New Promise Mandarinate minister.

The  Committee’s  “protection”  is  directly
proportional  to  the  M-T  Sector’s  importance.  Thus
members are almost honor guards in Pacific Heights,
thus earning the full support of that sector’ s Kindred.
In Bayview, however, they’re like roving gangs, almost
as bad as the Sabbat packs with which they deal. Those
Kindred  relegated  here  pursue  guerilla  warfare-like
strikes against the Committee’s members . Such actions,
though,  draw  reprisals  from  Van  Nuys  who  simply
throws more brutal Committee members into the area
to  “bust  heads”  until  the  local  vampires  cooperate.
Thus, the Committee assigns its vampires to the best
and worst sectors (Pacific Heights & Bayview), while
ghouls earn the three remaining sectors. They’ re only
distinctive from other Kindred and ghouls in the M-T
Sectors primarily because of their bluster and because
they can carry weapons (discretely, of course).

The Minister of the West keeps the Committee’s
agendas  and  operating  mandates  nebulous,  so  as  to
provide them with the widest leeway in pursuing their
duties.  The    Mandarinate  approves  simply  because
none of the regulations apply to them and it forces the
Kin-jin to police their own kind. In simplest terms, the
Committee for Public Vigilance and its members follow
these basic rules:

1)  Committee  members  may  check  and  verify  the
identities of Kindred and search their havens to ensure
the Mandarinate assigned them to that M-T Sector.

2) Committee members may detain and question
all Kindred suspected of any subversive or questionable
behavior that jeopardizes the New Promise Mandarinate
or the Camarilla’s accord with the Kuei-jin.

3)  Committee  members  may  defend  themselves
when threatened in a verbal or physical manner. If this
results in the destruction of the offending party, the
Committee for Public Vigilance determines whether
its members acted properly, and  punishes the guilty
accordingly.

4)  Committee  members  may  not  question  or

detain Kuei-jin.

5)  The  Committee  encourages  its  members  to
maintain  the  Masquerade  unless  the  situation
necessitates otherwise.

The presence of vigilantes as well as other concerns
leads to two unfortunate realities. The first is an increase
in the number of ghouls created by Kindred. Everyone
wants at least one reliable retainer to care for matters
during  the  day.  This,  in  turn,  creates  an  additional
demand  for  vitae,  further  increasing  the  pressure  to
hunt and feed one’s “brood.”

The second concern is one of paranoia. While some
of  the  Committee’s  enforcers  carry  their  membership
like  badges,  others  are  more  surreptitious  with  their
power. They act like any other Kindred assigned to the
M-T  Sector  and  spy  for  the  Committee.  They  rarely

65

question or detain vampires suspected of sedition, instead
relying on their more brazen compatriots to draw the fire
while they continue spying and reporting. A few Kindred
like Prince Winder suspect these moles exist, and they
even warn their allies about the potential. All this does,
however, is foster an atmosphere  of suspicion, where
Kindred question each other’s motives and the modus
operandi of many is “trust no one.”
HUNTING

Hunting  for  blood  is  increasingly  tricky  for  San
Francisco’s vampires. The growth in both vampiric and
ghoul population leads to a greater demand for vitae,
while restricted hunting in and outside the Munificent
Transition  Sectors  disrupts  established  Racks  and
domains. This leaves vampires hungrier, which in turn
leads to frenzies and unexplained gruesome crimes like
murder.

Generally  speaking,  Storytellers  should  increase
the  difficulty  of  hunting  feats  (  Vampire:  The
Masquerade,  p.  201)  by  +  1  to  reflect  the  problems
vampires endure within the M-T Sectors. This penalty
doesn’t  generally  apply  to  Kuei-jin  unless  they’re  in
unfamiliar territory, in which case Kuei-jin suffer from
other hunting problems (not the lest of which is running
into  roving  groups  of  Cainites).  A  botched  hunting
attempt  indicates  an  encounter  with  trouble:
accidentally  stumbling  into  other  hungry  vampires,
meeting a Sabbat pack and so on.
SHARING HERDS

With  prey  in  great  demand,  some  Kindred  fight
over vitae in turf wars with expected tragic results. The
Richmond district is one such place where some Kindred
will betray the Gangrel for the region’s ample blood. In
Bayview M-T Sector, a trio of young neonates claimed
dominion over several streets, residents and businesses,
tithing a percentage of blood from anyone feeding on
their  turf;  someone  took  offense  at  their  demands,
however,  and  decimated  the  three  vampires.  Their
assailant remains unknown.

Currently,  two  turf  wars  are  unfolding.  On  the
Castro and adjacent areas, there is a mad scramble by
local Kindred to stake out territory. The bars were the
first to go, but some young vampires now claim gay and
lesbian bathhouses, given the high turnover of customers
cruising  for  sex.  Two  bathhouses,  Deep  Steam  and
Jack’  s,  are  currently  in  contention,  with  neonates
struggling  to  maintain  their  hold  on  these
establishments against other neonates. The second turf
war  is  in  the  early  stages  and  centered  on  Haight-
Ashbury. The Tremere claim this areas as theirs, given
the number of occult bookstores, but Brujah from local
Castro intrude with rising impunity. Tremere and Brujah
neonates  have  already  fought  on  two  occasions  over
the matter, and Prince Winder’ s attempts to settle the
problem only met with failure.

66

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

Fortunately,  some  Kindred  accept  their  current
difficulties in stride. Some will even share resources in
exchange  for  boons  and  future  considerations.  They
cluster    around  areas  with  available  prey  and  share
vessels as much as possible without entirely depleting
them. Kokopell Mana the kachina, for example, believes
the Camarilla is her family. She  shares her ample herd
of  ghouls  with  neonates  of  various  clans  if  they  ask.
Billy Wei of the Heaven Promise Society is likewise
inclined, and shares his resources with others if  only to
convince Kindred that peaceful solutions always exist.
In game terms, vampires with the Herd Background
can temporarily surrender dots for the evening, giving
allies the benefit of their herd and “sharing the wealth.”
LOST IN THE FOG

One characteristic of San Francisco helping vampires
in their covert activities is the heavy fog that often rolls
in off the bay and blankets the city late at night and early
into the morning. Most often the fog burns off an hour
or  two  after  sunrise,  though  it  sometimes  lingers.  At
night, it can greatly reduce visibility and provide cover
for all sorts of nocturnal endeavors.

The  Storyteller  should  increase  the  difficulty  of
actions requiring clear vision by one (for moderate fog)
to two (for heavy fog). Conversely, the Storyteller may
lower  the  difficulty  of  feats  requiring  stealth  or
concealment (like hunting or B&E) by a corresponding
amount. The Auspex  power Heightened Senses reduces
this penalty by the character’s dots in Auspex (two dots
completely negates it). Kuei-jin ghostsight and lifesight
(Kindred of the East, p. 88-89) negate t he penalties
for detecting and dealing with other beings in the fog.
The fog greatly limits visibility for any character without
Heightened Senses. Finally, during the day, heavy fog
reduces the soak difficulty of sunlight to 8.

MIDNIGHT VASSALS AND
SCARLET SCREENS

Only part of the struggle for San Francisco occurs
between  the  Kuei-jin  and  the  Kin-jin.  Much  of  it
happens through mortal proxies influenced by the two
factions, with the Sabbat, the gaki  and others trying to
pull  strings  behind  the  scenes  as  well.  All  factions
(with the possible exception of the Sabbat) are subtle
in their manipulation, concealing their existence from
most of their mortal agents.
KINDRED

The  Kindred  developed  their  inroads  into  San
Francisco over centuries. Truth be told, however, they
haven’t taken all the opportunities they could have,
something the Camarilla now regrets. Prince Van Nuys
and  Prince Thomas before him only influenced kine

CHAPTER FOUR: SAN FRANCISCO NIGHTS

society as much as necessary to ensure the Masquerade
and  maintain  their  own  power.  Many  of  Van  Nuys’
former contacts and vassals joined him, however,  when
the New Promise Mandarinate appointed the former
prince Minister of the West. That left the Camarilla
scrambling  to  shore  up  old  allegiances  and  find  new
avenues  of  influence  throughout  the  city,  while  the
Kuei-jin and their allies did the same.

The Camarilla still has the pulse of a few key areas,
though those resources only allow them to maintain
some power under the New Promise Mandarinate rather
than being effective weapons against the Cathayans.
THE POLICE

During the reign of Prince Van Nuys, the Camarilla
built  strong  ties  with  the  San  Francisco  Police
Department, enough to encourage officers to overlook
the occasional murder or disappearance. Unfortunately,
the Kindred influence over the police was piecemeal at
best. Individual vampires had their “pet”  officers and
personnel  within  the  department,  either  through
coercion, blackmail or blood bond, with a few ghouls
scattered  about.  The  higher-ranking  pawns  in  the
department belonged to Van Nuys himself, and he still
wields influence.

The Police Department is “prime for the picking,”
but    allegations  of  widespread  corruption  create  two
kinds of cops: the idealist looking to change the system
and  the  cop  of  convenience  trying  to  score.  Finding
which  is  which  can  be  easy  for  neonates,  however,
especially for those with street contacts. Corrupt cops
always make themselves known by their actions. Thus
neonates have plenty of opportunities to “ingratiate”
corrupt  beat  cops  and  patrolmen  into  their  service
through bribes or blood. The investment pays  off when
and if the cop earns a promotion and transfers into a
new  department.  Of  course  the  trouble  with  that
practice are the other ghouls and detectives on the take
in these new divisions. Specifically, Vice and Homicide
are both focal points of vampiric interest, and often a
mess of conflicting agendas. That’s not to mention the
department’s unwritten arrangements with influence
powerhouses like Van Nuys.

This leaves the police department largely paralyzed
when dealing with local vampire activity. The Kindred
try to use their influence to cause legal troubles for the
Cathayans, but the department’s higher- ups shut down
the  investigations  quickly.  This  conflict  of  external
interests  eventually  draws  in  Internal  Affairs,  who
watch closely for signs of police corruption, weeding
out officers “on the take.” This eventually limits  shen
influence and erodes vampiric interference within the
police  department,  which  may  leave  all  sides  facing
problems  down  the  road.  For  now,  however,  the
dangerous chess game continues.

67

THE CLUBS

The area of mortal activity where Kindred retain the
greatest  autonomy  is  in  the  entertainment  business,
namely various bars, clubs and other nightspots used by
the Camarilla as hunting grounds and havens over the
decades.  Numerous    mortals,  including  managers,
bouncers, DJs and club-owners, are tied to the Kindred
through blood, silent partnership or coercion. Since the
arrival  of  the  Kuei-jin  and  the  formation  of  the  M-T
Sectors, the Camarilla vampires have only strengthened
their grip over these places, fortifying them against the
Cathayans and making them into true havens for their
kind. It is not uncommon for such nightclubs or discos
to  maintain  a  basement  or  attic  lounge  for  “private
parties,” open only by special invitation.

Within the M-T Sectors (particularly the Castro)
these places are sanctuaries where Kindred tread with
very  little  fear  and  most    Cathayans  rarely  venture.
Those  Kindred  still  maintaining  herds  usually  do  so
around  a  popular  nightspot  where  their  vessels  may
gather without drawing undue suspicion. That means
those with the most ties into the club scene prosper (or
at least not suffer as greatly) under the rule of the New
Promise Mandarinate. Kindred who disdain such places
now slink into them, looking to satisfy their hunger,
while  their  former  rivals  act  as  princes  of  their  own
little fiefdoms.

Outside the M-T Sectors, popular nightspots serve
as  islands  of  Kindred  influence  in  the  New  Promise
Mandarinate.  The  Kuei-jin  even  co-opt  some  with
promises  of  non-interference,  and  cultivate  them  as
Scarlet Screens and harvest sites. Here Kin-jin maintain
herds of pliable mortals for both Kuei-jin and Kindred
alike. Others remain steadfastly loyal to the Camarilla
or claim neutrality, which the Kuei-jin permit for now,
given  the  current  difficulties  in  dislodging  Kin-jin
influence. The Kuei-jin’ s elitist attitudes work against
them in this area. Many believe it beneath their station
to  frequent  mortal  nightclubs  (particularly  the  gay,
lesbian and fetish clubs), so they’re content to leave
such places in the hands of the Kin-ji n — overlooking
their potential value because of distaste.

In this situation, however, nightclubs are akin to a
Kindred’s natural resource. Good nightclubs draw large
crowds  and  high  turnovers,  creating  prime  feeding
grounds, while less successful clubs still pull in enough
clientele  to  net  steady  vitae  for  a  vampire  or  two.
Regardless,  clubs  are  territory;  given  San  Francisco’s
current  woes,  that  means    a  source  of  competition.
Elders and ancillae in particular vie with each other for
nightclubs,  either  by  trying  to  buy  into  the  mortal
partnership or by investing in the establishment.

With  the  feeding  rights  stretched  thin,  some
vampires  resort  to  more  violent  tactics.  If  a  nearby
nightclub  pulls  in    more  customers  than  yours  does,
send in a handful of ghouls to start a knife or gunfight.

68

NIGHTLY ENTERTAINMENT

San Francisco hosts several nightclubs and discos
that prove very popular among the Kindred who can
reach them. The first is in the heart of Castro Street
and is called the Europa. Although definitively a gay
establishment, the Europa is extremely popular among
trendy teens and affluent/hip dot.com’ ers looking for
an exotic venue for their straight dates. The Friday
night Drag Show and Fag Hag Appreciation Thursdays
draw a packed house, while Imperium Rex Saturdays
pits San Francisco’ s hottest DJs against each other in
a  duel  of  the  newest  techno  tracks.  Vampires  love
Europa,  if  only  because  its  Mardi  Gras  feel  and
throbbing bass deceives them into believing they’re
actually alive for that evening.

At the opposite end of the spectrum is Hammer’s
in South of Market. Although part of the 40-nightclub
stretch, Hammer’s is a warehouse disco that is open by
invitation only. Most Kindred know at least one other
vampire who can provide the initial invite, however,
and once invited, you’re automatically a member.

Hammer’s is best described as a fetish nightclub, but
not in the traditional sense (if tradition and fetish were
ever mutually exclusive). The dress code runs from suit-
and-tie to PVC, but the entertainment is certainly “unique”
and not for the prudish or those with refined sensibilities.
Hammer’s hosts various interest groups and clubs nightly,
offering them free admission and three complimentary
drinks if they “do their thing” in the nightclub’s spectacle
cages. Most of these groups are exhibitionist by default and
always  looking  for  new  members,  so  they  have  few
reservations about being on display.

On any given night, Hammer’ s patrons may find
modern primitives in the bar conducting scarification
and  brandings  on  one  another,  or  a  local  chapter  of
Baccae (which caters to large hedonistic men, women
and their fans) who parade around naked, cavort and
even  lap  dance  for  admirers.  Hammer’s  isn’t  about
degradation, however, but pride. The participants are all
proud of their interests or bodies, and Hammer’ s ensures
it invites patrons who appreciative their diversity. The
bouncers immediately kick out anyone who insults or
derides members of the showcased club. Most vampires
like the place enough to keep their mouths shut.

The resulting bad press invariably siphons customers
from that bar to yours. This situation already exists in
the Castro and South of Market M-T , as well as the
bars  and  strip  clubs  in  the  Tenderloin.  Given  the
Tenderloin  is  technically  off-limits  to  Kindred,
however,  some  establishments  are  free  of  Kindred
depredations… for now.

Because of the escalating war over clubs and bars,
neonates often find it impossible to claim any territory

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

within their assigned M-T Sector. The options are 1)
“invest”  in a mortal with the capital to open a nightclub
(but good luck holding this resource once it opens for
business  and  the  other  vampires  come  looking  for  a
meal) or 2) be innovative. Enterprising neonates are
more attuned to modern culture, and thus more aware
of the options available to them. Some neonates sponsor
underground  raves  in  SoMa  warehouses,  drawing  in
enough people to start herds or feed their entire coterie
for the  night with nobody the wiser. Other neonates
operate illegal casinos in their homes or host ghouled
cockfights, etc.
TRANSPORTATION

The Kindred retain some influence with the city’s
transportation  industry.  They  learned  years  ago  the
value  of  maintaining  contacts  within  local  taxi
companies,  moving  companies  and  public
transportation,  allowing  for  the  discrete  and  secret
conveyance of corpses (animate and otherwise) from
place to place. It was a last-resort resource for most,
something  maintained  as  an  afterthought,  but  it  has
proven most useful since the Kuei-jin occupation.

San Francisco has an excellent public transportation
system, and the Kindred capitalize on it. The mortal
“chauffeurs”  distract  or  fly  under  the  Mandarinate’s
watchful  eye  long  enough  for  transport  and  cargo  to
leave an M-T Sector and return. The Nosferatu utilize
the  underground  Muni  tunnels  and  stations  as  well,
along with the dozens of half-finished and abandoned
corridors  throughout  the  city’s  underground.  These
allow the captive Kindred some measure of mobility, at
least until the Kuei-jin successfully seal them off.

Currently, the Nosferatu exert the most influence
in transportation; their inroads with mass transit and
sanitation  are  almost  complete.  Admittedly,  the
Nosferatu cemented their monopoly when the Kuei-jin
invaded the city and many Kindred fled, leaving gaps
open for the taking. Outside of the Sewer Rats , most
Kindred  with  transportation  clout  rely  on  limousine
and cab companies, leaving a wide field of venues still
available  (moving  companies,  independent  cabbies,
lease outlets, etc.). The Kindred have yet to tap every
transportation  venue. Even among taxi and limousine
services,  several  medium-sized  and  many  small
operations  remain  untouched.  Slowly,  however,
Kindred and Kuei-jin realize the importance of mobility
in a city of borders, and do the utmost to secure private
transport for whatever the occasion. This means that
neonates and Running Monkeys still have open access
to  this  field  of  influence,  especially  with  transport
companies,  small  cab  operations,  some  limousine
services and most car rental outlets.

An interesting development of late concerns rumors
that Prince Winder will soon ask that all Kindred to
contribute to locking the city’s transportation network
down. While this rumor’s validity remains uncertain,

CHAPTER FOUR: SAN FRANCISCO NIGHTS

many Kindred conjecture that it could stem from one
of two sources. The first is that if Prince Winder plans
to retake the city, she needs all transportation options
available to ferry troops and supplies around when the
time comes. The second and equally viable reason is
that  by  exploiting  the  transportation  venues,  the
Kindred restrict the Kuei-jin from using these resources
to launch further invasions or from completely securing
the  city.  Unfortunately  for  the  Camarilla,  the
Mandarinate is not oblivious to this threat; they have
already secured Chinatown’ s transportation networks
save for the tunnels and sewers, and slowly extend their
sway. While Kindred fear little from internecine turf
wars in this arena, they will eventually contend with
the growing Kuei-jin Scarlet Screens.
ALTERNATIVE CULTURE

Kuei-jin culture is relatively conservative, especially
among the Quincunx’s elders. Many Kuei-jin weren’t
ready  for  the  range  of  sub-cultures  extant  in  San
Francisco, and the sheer decadence of Westerners shocks
them. These Kuei-jin want nothing to do with gays,
hippies, fetishists, goths, ravers, neo-pagans and other
features of the Bay Area social landscape. The Kindred,
however,  have  had  their  fingers  in  all  of  these  sub-
cultures and many more for years. Since the Cathayans
haven’t  even  bothered  challenging  their  influence
within  these  movements,  the  Kindred  move  among
these mortals relatively unmolested.

In San Francisco’s modern nights, it is the city’s most
alternative and avant-garde side that serves as the ideal
Masquerade  for  Western  vampires.  This  places  greater
influence  in  the  hands  of  young  Kindred,  anarchs  and
even Caitiffs more familiar with the modern and protean
social scene than their elders. They can better blend in
and  extend  their  contacts  and  power  base  within  the
mortal community. Prince Winder promises rewards for
loyal  vampires  affiliated  with  various  counter-cultures
who provide assistance in reclaiming San Francisco. Of
course, the New Promise Mandarinate makes it equally
clear that opportunities exist for Kin-jin tired of Camarilla
rule, opportunities based on merit and achievement rather
than generation or clan affiliation.

Although most Kuei-jin prefer avoiding Western
decadence,  they  will  happily  use  Kindred  as  their
emissaries with these mortal communities. Some  young
Kuei-jin  also  find  themselves  drawn  to  the  dazzling
array  of  mortal  cultures  extant  in  San  Francisco  (to
their elders’ disapproval). Thus, any Kuei-jin caught
frequenting a gay disco or swingers club, for example,
risks losing esteem and even allies among the Quincunx.
By the same token, Kindred will likely approach these
individuals for support in the hopes of using the Kuei-
jin’ s new “interests” in the Camarilla’s favor.

Currently, the “alternative scene” is a hodgepodge
of  disparate  interests  snowballed  into  one  simple
descriptive.  From  social  clubs  catering  to  different

69

sexual pursuits, to tattoo and piercing parlors, to fetish
nights at clubs, to weekend-long rave parties, to pagan
seminars at local bookstores, to support groups for the
gay/lesbian/bi/tran  communities,  to  anything  else
imagination desires beyond the norm; they’re  all part
of the so-called alternative scene and counter-culture
movement according to society. Unfortunately for the
Camarilla,  these  varied  interests  long-remained  the
recruiting grounds of anarchs and the Sabbat.

The  anarchs,  for  example,  often  scout  the
alternative music scene to find its rebels, be it industrial
or  thrash  bars,  raves  or  even  concerts.  Sabbat
shovelheads, however, often recruit their mortals from
among  the  body  alteration  crowd,  be  it  tattoo  and
piercing parlors or basement torture and scarification
parties for those into the heavy S&M scene. Kindred
and Cainites of mystic bent, like the Tremere or Sabbat
Thaumaturgists, frequent occult and new age bookstores
for their prey. That’ s not to say every tattoo parlor,
magic shop and underground record store has a resident
spider at the center of its web; merely that neonates and
Running Monkeys exploring alternative cultures should
plan on encountering vampires of different sects when
trying  to  establish  their  network  of  contacts.
Fortunately, there’ s a high-enough turnover in these
so-called alternative cultures (both in businesses and
involved mortals) that there’s always room to maneuver
and establish new contacts and influence.
KUEI-JIN

Kuei-jin  influence  in  San  Francisco  began  small
but is growing rapidly thanks to several factors — the
first being the Camarilla’s laxity. Secure in their position
locally, the Kin-jin didn’ t notice the Kuei-jin extending
their power base out from Chinatown, through Scarlet
Screens and businesses tied to Los Angeles and Hong
Kong. By the time war wu entered the city to stake the
Quincunx’  s  claim,  the  Kuei-jin  had  reasonable  pull
within San Francisco as “major investors.”

 The second factor arose when the New Promise
Mandarinate co-opted various Kin-jin, including former
prince  Jochen  Van  Nuys.  These  renegades  brought
their own contacts and influences into the Mandarinate’
s camp, placing them at the disposal of the city’s new
urban  predators.  This  simultaneously  weakened  the
Kin-jin while strengthening the Quincunx’s hold.

Finally, the Kuei-jin aggressively recruit and create
new Scarlet Screens to serve their needs in the West,
following  the  lessons  of  the  Los  Angeles  campaign.
Their  experience  and  an  established  foothold  in  the
West allowed them to extend their power in pivotal
enterprises and arenas more rapidly.
CHINATOWN

The  Kuei-jin’s  throne  of  power  resides  in
Chinatown,  where  the  virtually  unchallenged  New
Promise Mandarinate rules the night.  Kindred carefully

70

MAJOR SAN FRANCISCO TONGS

The  names  and  faces  associated  with  San
Francisco’ s Tongs change almost nightly thanks to
Kuei-jin building them up and the Kindred and
other forces tearing them down. In fact, if the war
between the Camarilla and Quincunx is blatant
anywhere  in  San  Francisco,  it  is  in  the  struggle
between Scarlet Screens and ghouls.

The Storyteller may alter details as much as desired,
or  build  an  interesting  series  of  stories  (or  entire
chronicle) around the resurrection of local Tongs.

Gum  San  Tong:  The  “Golden  Mountain
Tong” is favored by the New Promise Mandarinate
and currently the most powerful and influential in
the city.  Its prime patron is Resplendent Crane
Mandarin  Han  Hui  (p.80)  and  her  Violet  Path
Posse  wu.  The  Gum  San’s  chief  money-making
enterprise  is  heroin  smuggling  from  the  Golden
Triangle  into  the  city,  but  it  also  profits  from
prostitution,  other  forms  of  narcotic  trafficking,
protection rackets and smuggling illegal immigrants
from  the  Middle  Kingdom.  The  Tong’s  leaders
know who they work for and don’ t much care, so
long as the money keeps coming.

Heaven and Earth Association: The Heaven and
Earth  Association  is  a  small  Tong  influenced  by
Mandarin Lili Zhou (p. 82). She pays it only passing
attention, however, leaving most matters in the hands
of the Tong’ s leader, James Tan. The Association
ostensibly  works  with  the  Gum  San  Tong  in  most
areas,  though  it’s  trying  to  strengthen  its  position,
should Lili Zhou decide to replace the Gum San Tong.
Triangle  Prosperity  Group:  The  so-called
Triangle  Prosperity  Group  has  associations  with
Mandarin  Song  Feng  (p.  XX)  and  the  Electric
Money  Wickedness  Club  (see  Dharma  Book:
Devil-Tigers  for  more  information).  It  focuses
attention on more “white collar” crimes like money
laundering, insider trading and real-estate scams to
supplement its income from drugs and vice. The
Prosperity  group  recently  hit  a  snag    while
competing with the Russian Mafiya for business in
the waterfront districts, but it seems only a matter
of time before the Tong overcomes those obstacles.

avoid  Chinatown  and  most  areas  adjacent  to  it;  any
Kin-jin caught within this stronghold’s boundary faces
Final Death after a long and painful interrogation to
discover their reasons for “invading”  Kuei-jin territory.
The  Kuei-jin  slowly  infiltrate  every  aspect  of
Chinatown’s existence, tightening their hold over the
neighborhood. It is essential to their plans, since it is
the social and spiritual anchor connecting San Francisco
to the Middle Kingdom. It allows them access to the

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

spirit worlds and is the  local font where new Kuei-jin
rise  among  the  populace.  Chinatown  makes  San
Francisco an even more viable a stronghold than Los
Angeles, since the Quincunx considers the traditional
Asian community a part of the Middle Kingdom.

By  appearances,  the  New  Promise  Mandarinate
holds Chinatown in an unbreakable grip, but the truth
is    that  a  hidden  power  struggle  the  Kin-jin  know
virtually nothing about leaves the area contested. The
presence of rebellious kànbujiàn and rumors of akuma
in  the  very  heart  of  their  territory  troubles  the
Mandarinate  deeply.  Even  some  perceptive  mortals
have  noticed  the  Hungry  Dead  in  their  community,
and may try limiting the Mandarinate’ s influence (see
Chapters  Two  and  Three  for  more  details  on  the
struggles affecting Chinatown).
THE TONGS

The  New  Promise  Mandarinate’s  most  vital  and
useful Scarlet Screens are the Tongs, Chinese criminal
gangs  who  served  the  Kuei-jin  well  in  the  past,
particularly in Hong Kong and Shanghai. The Tongs
once  exerted  considerable  influence  in  Chinatown,
particularly  in  the  1920s  and  ‘  30s.  Their  power
diminished greatly over the course of the 20th century,
however, to the point where it was almost nonexistent
when the Quincunx turned its attention to the Great
Leap Outward.

The  Kuei-jin  revived  the  Tongs’  influence  in
Chinatown,  providing  havens  for  displaced  Triad
members from Hong Kong and encouraging the growth
of  Tong-related  businesses  like  drugs,  vice  and
protection  rackets.  Much  to  the  Mandarinate’  s
displeasure,  Chinatown’s  populace  is  accepting  this
particular  “tradition”  back  into  their  community  far
too slowly. Chinatown fought hard to rid themselves of
the Tongs in the first place, and neighborhood anti-
crime  initiatives  (supported  by  Kindred  and  Green
Court  influences  within  the  justice  system)  become
increasingly more common.

Still, the Tongs have returned and become a force
of to be reckoned with  in San Francisco. Tong members
and affiliated gangs (see “The Street Scene”) serve as
the New Promise Mandarinate’ s primary mortal proxies.
They operate as soldiers and enforcers, keeping watch
in Chinatown day and night, dealing with territorial
incursions and fighting Kindred-influenced street gangs
and mortal criminals.

For  more  information  on  Tong  organization  and

traditions, see the Killing Streets sourcebook.
HOTELS

When the Kuei-jin first took serious notice of San
Francisco, one area they focused on immediately was
the city’ s major hotels (and, through them, the tourist
industry). They first approached these establishments
through  Asian-based  travel  agencies,  promising  the

CHAPTER FOUR: SAN FRANCISCO NIGHTS

hotels  exclusivity  on  Asian  tour  groups  visiting  San
Francisco.  Moving  subtly  through  these  inroads,  the
Kuei-jin recruited hotel owners and managers initially,
moving  all  the  way  down  to  head  maids  and  desk
concierges . This allowed them to watch traffic arriving
in or leaving the city, since many visiting Kin-jin used
hotels as temporary havens and hunting grounds. Their
influence allowed the Cathayans to bypass security at
some  of  the  finest  hotels,  surprising  Kin-jin  guests
before sending them off to Final Death.

The New Promise Mandarinate’s inroads with local
hotels help it maintain some power. Visiting Kindred
have few options but to stay with associates in the M-
T Sectors, rather than checking into a downtown hotel
where Mandarinate representatives will likely notice
and  visit  them.  The  Mandarinate  can  also  supervise
visiting  mortals  serving  the  Camarilla  and  Sabbat.
Moreover,  the  Kuei-jin’  s  presence  in  prestigious
establishments like the Sir Francis Drake Hotel allows
them to influence important mortals passing through
the city, thus extending their power base beyond the
city and Tremere wards.
BATTLEGROUNDS

Although both sides possess strongholds, the Kuei-
jin  and  Kindred  struggle  for  control  of  many  other
aspects of mortal society. These are battlegrounds where
the war for San Francisco is fought in day by proxy and
in night by vampires. San Francisco knows no peace.
THE FINANCIAL DISTRICT

San Francisco is an important hub for international
finance along the Pacific Rim. It has been the Camarilla’
s  fiscal  center  in  western  North  America  for  over  a
hundred and fifty years. It is a key reason why the sect
intends to maintain its hold over the city, no matter
how  tenuous.  The  Ventrue  spent  considerable  time
and money developing their holdings  in San Francisco,
as  well  as  arranging  for  Jochen  Van  Nuys  to  help
protect them. Now, with Van Nuys removed from his
position  and  the  Kuei-jin  spreading  their  influence
across  the  city,  the  struggle  for  San  Francisco’  s
considerable financial resources begins in earnest.

On the Kindred side of matters are the Ventrue,
represented by Prince Sara Anne Winder. They subtly
directed  business  in  the  city  for  over  a  century  and
maintain considerable local interests.  Unfortunately,
removing  Jochen  Van  Nuys  as  prince  seemingly
strengthened his support for the “peace process” and
the New Promise Mandarinate, compromising Ventrue
enterprises. The Ventrue scramble to change the city’
s locks (passcodes, account numbers, etc.) to protect
their  assets  without  alerting  the  Cathayans  to  any
potential vulnerabilities.

On the Kuei-jin’ s side are the Bamboo Princes and
forces like the Electric Money Wickedness Club. Young
Kuei-jin learned the intricacies of modern business and

71

put those lessons to work in places like Hong Kong and
Los  Angeles.  Now  the  Kuei-jin  move  in  on  Kin-jin
business  interests  and  resources  in  San  Francisco,
manipulate stocks, move bonds and secret numbered
accounts  and  try  their  hand  at  the  dot.com  market.
Their  primary  advantage  is  easy  access  to  the  city’s
thriving financial district, while the Kin-jin must handle
matters  from  afar.  Conversely,  the  wards  around  the
city  largely  keep  the  Cathayans  away  from  Silicon
Valley,  but  the  Valley  is  nothing  if  not  friendly  to
telecommuters and e-business.

While  this  seems  like  a  dangerous  battlefield  for
outsiders looking to join the action, there are still some
open doors that escaped the Mandarinate’s and Ventrue’
s attentions. The first are several ghouls who slipped
through the cracks when the Kuei-jin invaded. While
the Ventrue consider the Financial District theirs, they
rarely operated as a cohesive unit. Instead, each Ventrue
or business-minded Kindred pursued their operations
secretly and without any sanction save their personal
interests. The invasion, however, either destroyed some
of these Kindred or they fled, leaving behind ghouls
and lackeys that remain undiscovered.

While  the  lackeys  know  little  to  nothing  about
their Kindred sponsors, they made enough money on
the side to enjoy their arrangement. Now they search
for new sponsors who can pay them money under the
table  in  exchange  for  a  variety  of  services  (insider
trading,  money  laundering,  embezzlement,  creating
dummy corporations, doctoring books, etc.). This means
that if these opportunists find or hear about someone
trying  to  enter  the  Financial  District  through  back
doors, they will make the effort to contact them first (if
they have a name or contact on which they can rely).
Ghouls,  on  the  other  hand,  know  a  little  about
vampires, as well as a couple of select gathering points
where their Kindred allies took them. The ghouls may
frequent these places, hoping to find a new blood donor
in  exchange  for  their  loyalty  and  contacts.
Alternatively,  characters  can  try  and  sneak  into  the
few bars or pubs in the Financial District catering to the
business and stock market crowd. Through investigative
work, they may find a ghoul here as well (a down-on-
his-luck investment broker who always looks like he’ s
in withdrawal; a bartender says he seems to have slipped
around the date coinciding with the Kuei-jin invasion).
The second option into this battlefield is actually
an  illegal  boiler  room  operation  with  offices  in  the
Financial  District,  selling  junk  shares  in  companies
and new technologies. Well-protected behind several
dummy fronts, the operation is in no danger of being
exposed  just  yet.  Anyone  with  strong  street  ties,
however,  knows  that  the  operation  recruits  talented
hustlers and intensively trains them to become  business-
savvy sharks. If the characters intercept one of these
up-and-comers before they leave the street, they could
buy  their  way  into  the  boiler  room  operation.  From

72

there, there’ s a strong chance that another firm will
hire them… it’s all just a matter of patience.
THE STREET SCENE

Away from the boardrooms and banks, yet a nother
struggle unfolds behind the scenes. Both the Kuei-jin
and  Kindred  extend  considerable  influence  over
elements  of  the  city’s  street-life,  including  both  the
homeless and various street gangs. Gangrel, Malkavian
and  Nosferatu  vampires  use  San  Francisco’s  growing
homeless population as vessels, ghouls and sometimes
even as a source of childer.

The Kuei-jin discovered similar uses for the city’s
derelicts, though they are more interested in denying
the Kin-jin a useful resource than in  cultivating it for
themselves.  The  Cathayans  know  that  every  ragged
figure crouched in a doorway or at a street corner may
serve  as  the  Kin-jin’s  eyes  and  hands,  so  they’ve
encouraged efforts to  “clean up” the city’s homeless.
Scarlet Screens advocate the creation of new shelters,
which  they  tend  and  use  to  harvest  Chi  for  the
Mandarinate. Corralling the legions of homeless is no
simple matter, however, so efforts aren’ t likely to meet
any immediate success. In the meanwhile, every vagrant
or panhandler may be a Kin-jin spy or even a disguised
vampire. Fortunately, the city takes little note when
vagrants simply disappear.

With  the  growth  of  the  Chinatown  Tongs,
associated youth gangs have also risen in prominence,
clashing with Camarilla and Sabbat street gangs. San
Francisco  police  have    noticed  an  increase  in  gang-
related  violence,  similar  to  trends  that  began  in  Los
Angeles a year or two ago. Local residents are also more
careful  about  locking  their  doors  and  less  eager  to
investigate any strange noises they hear from the streets.
Neighborhoods  adjacent  to  the  M-T  Sectors  are
particularly  prone  to  gang  violence,  while  vampire
interference  within  the  police  department  hampers
local efforts to rein in the problem.

Given the ratio of vampires to humans, the vampires
cannot account for everyone or their interests. In fact,
many  Kuei-jin  and  Kin-jin  rely  on  large  groups  or
organization  heads,  leaving    these  mortal  proxies  to
handle “the small fish.” Neonates and Running Monkeys
work in reverse, starting with the plethora  of small fish
looking to make a big splash and helping them swim up
the social river of their peers. Some neonates are even
lucky enough to foster alliances with driven individuals,
who move through the ranks like lightning and swiftly
assume positions of responsibility (whether in a gang or
street-level  organizations).  When  this  happens,  jina
and  ancillae  with  stronger  ties  into  the  organization
may approach neonates and Running Monkeys to “ buy
their  contacts”  from  them  in  exchange  for  boons  or
shared influence.

In San Francisco, this more often creates friction
than  alliances.  The  street  scene  is  a  battlefield  of

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

interests,  with  elder  vampires  in  both  camps  forcing
young vampires into one-sided alliances and lopsided
arrangements favoring the already powerful. The reason
is one of management: Control the head and the body
follows, meaning control the vampire and he brings his
interests and resources in line as well. Characters  with
any connections to the streets will find their resources
besieged by vampire elders looking to secure their own
networks with alliances. Vampires of other sects will
also  try  to  deprive  their  opposition  of  valuable
commodities and contacts through brute force (often
mortal  in  nature).  So  for  example,  the  Gangrel,
Nosferatu  and  Malkavians  may  dip  into  the  old
communal transient pool for blood, but they also attack
each other’s resources if they believe someone threatens
their street herds. Already someone has sent  a handful
of vagrants on a rampage through a soup kitchen used
by Kindred gangbangers to draw their herd.

Currently,  most  of  the  street  violence  originates
from Kindred who carefully cover their tracks, despite
the  gangland  strikes  against  one  another.  The  New
Promise Mandarinate rarely starts fights, but it always
finishes  them.  The  Kuei-jin’s  mortal  proxies  come
down hard on any gang or criminal element who causes
them problems, especially if their actions smell of Kin-
jin interference.

THE SPIRIT WORLDS

An  important  element  of  San  Francisco  for  the
Kuei-jin is the city’s spiritual landscape, long overlooked
and abused by both its Kindred and mortal inhabitants.
The region contains copious amounts of Chi and no
less  than  four  dragon  nests  —  a  substantial  number
even in the Middle Kingdom — but the area’s Chi is
poorly tended at best.

The city’s inauspicious feng shui sends out “poison
arrows,”  creating bad joss. According to the Kuei-jin,
it  is  this  warping  of  San  Francisco’s  Chi  more  than
anything else that led to the Camarilla’s downfall here.
It is also what hampers  Kindred efforts to overcome the
New Promise Mandarinate.

With their knowledge of geomancy and Chi, the
Kuei-jin managed to blunt the effects of poisoned Chi
on  themselves  and  even  benefit  from  it,  while  the
Kindred can only suffer (see Cultivating Chi in Chapter
Six).  Most  Kindred  scoff  at  the  idea  of  basing  their
decisions on feng shui  and Chinese astrology. Even the
Tremere  remain  dubious  of  this  unseen  spirit  world
influencing  their  existence,  but  they  possess  few
explanations for the extraordinary luck the Cathayans
seem to carry with them.

Normally,  the  Kuei-jin’  s  access  to  and
understanding of the spirit worlds would be a substantial
advantage, as it has been in the past, but recent events
and conditions in San Francisco make the spirit worlds
dangerous even for the Wan Kuei. Howling storms and

CHAPTER FOUR: SAN FRANCISCO NIGHTS

angry ghosts fill the Yin World, while the Yang World
holds predators both spiritual and material.
THE YIN WORLD

Since the ill-fated Kuei-jin invasion of Los Angeles,
a terrible storm, greater than the mightiest typhoon the
living world has ever known, wracks the Yin World.
Ghostly winds tear and ravage the normally still and
silent fields of the Yellow Springs, scattering the spirits
of  the  dead  far  afield  or  sending  them  for  shelter
wherever available.

The raging maelstrom threatens the existence of
any Kuei-jin who dares walk the Yin World’s paths, but
dare  it  some  must,  since  the  Kuei-jin  feel  deeply
obligated to their ancestors’ spirits. More importantly,
the August Courts agreed to a pact of mutual aid with
the Yellow Springs when obtaining Yu Huang’s aid in
taking Los Angeles. Now, with Yu Huang’s kingdom in
tatters,  it  is  the  Kuei-jin  who  must  render  aid  in
accordance with their agreement.

San Francisco is fortunate (if such a term applies to
the dead) in that the 1906 fire left its mark on the Yin
World  by  destroying  significant  portions  of  the  city.
The “shadows”  of many buildings burned in the fire
still linger, like echoes of a young San Francisco, buried
for nearly a hundred years. In these dead places that co-
exist  alongside  the  living  world,  ghosts  find  shelter
from the raging storm, including refugees of Yu Huang’s
dread fleet and spirits from surrounding areas.

These  ghosts  have  their  own  concerns,  but  they
will speak with summoners —  especially in exchange
for  jade,  chi-rich  blood  or  other  valuables.  Kuei-jin
necromancers  use  ghosts  to  spy  for  them  and  gather
information about the city as it existed years or even
decades ago. Whispers among the dead say other Wan
Kuei walk the Yin World’s paths; they are akuma, and
some of them have been in the city for a long time.
EFFECTS OF THE YIN STORM

The raging Yin World storm makes travel in these
domains dangerous for Kuei-jin (or anyone else, for that
matter). Exposure to the storm without any shelter causes
anywhere from one to ten dice of lethal damage each turn,
depending on the storm’s severity (Storyteller’s judgement
or roll one die to randomly determine the storm’ s strength).
Brief periods of relative calm allow spirits to scamper from
one place to the next, but there is no way of knowing
when the storm will rage again.
GHOST STORIES

Troubles in the Yin World can be a source of stories
for a Kindred of the East chronicle set in San Francisco.
There  are  many  restless  spirits  born  from  the  city’s
sometimes- turbulent history. An ancestor may ask or
obligate  characters  to  journey  into  the  Yin  World  to
render  assistance,  or  the  characters  may  ask  a  long-
departed ghost for information vital to their cause. It’ s

73

also a good excuse for Storytellers to indulge in historical
roleplaying while the characters visit the ghost of Old
San Francisco, the city that died in the 1906 earthquake
and fire but still  lingers in the Yin World. What secrets
might the characters uncover about Chinatown or Kin-
jin havens? More importantly, what ghosts still remain
sheltered  in  these  bygone  structures,  waiting  out  the
storm?
THE YANG WORLD

The Yang World in the vicinity of San Francisco is
not as troubled as the Yin World, but it is dangerous to
Kuei-jin visitors for its own reasons. The powerful Chi
flowing  from  the  dragon  nests  make  San  Francisco’  s
Yang  World  a  vibrant  and  dynamic  place,  but
disturbances in the Chi flow and bad joss make the Yang
World’s inhabitants angry and difficult to deal with.

The  Yang  World  is  a  bright  and  energetic  place,
even at night under the full glow of the moon. Distant
fires  from  the  Burning  City  (below)  light  the  night,
showing the flickering shadows of figures moving through
the streets. Kuei-jin report seeing hsien, both Asian and
Western  spirit  folk,  though  the  Yang  World  denizens
most concerning the Wan Kuei are the hengeyokai , the
Changing People. Even more than the inhabitants of
the Middle Kingdom, the Western beast-people oppose
the  Kuei-jin.  Visitors  to  San  Francisco’s  Yang  World
quickly  discover  the  wolf-warriors  are  often  close  at
hand and likely to attack any vampire they see.
THE BURNING CITY

Part of San Francisco’s dreamlike landscape in the
Yang World is the Burning City, the bright counterpart
to the ghostly buildings standing in the Yin World. The
Burning City fills the Yang reflection of downtown San
Francisco  with  sheets  of  bright,  dancing  flame,  pure
unleashed Yang Chi from the depths of the dragon nests.
For the most part, the flames are only dreams. They
cannot sear the flesh of visitors, though they cast light and
heat as though real. Kuei-jin must overcome wave soul
when confronting them (just as Kindred must check for
Rötschreck, should they somehow enter the Yang World).
The Burning City is a haven of sorts to hsien  (both
Occidental and Oriental), since Kuei-jin do not linger
long  in  the  concentrated  wash  of  Yang  energies.  It
appears, however, that the Chi flames slowly diminish
in strength, possibly a symptom of the imbalance extant
in  the  city’s  dragon  nests  or  the  greater  number  of
Hungry Dead prowling the streets.
THE GOLDEN COURT OF THE DRAGON KING
OF THE SEA

The  other  significant  portion  of  San  Francisco’s
Yang World is the Golden Court of the Dragon King of
the Sea, a realm beneath the waves of San Francisco

74

EARTHQUAKES

Powerful earthquakes, like the 1989 Loma Prieta
quake that damaged San Francisco, are relatively rare.
San Francisco has suffered from only two such powerful
quakes in the city’s entire history. Minor upheavals and
tremors, however, are extremely common in California,
particularly in areas  like San Francisco that adjoin the
San Andreas Fault. People barely feel most of these
tremors.  Even  the  stronger  ones  only  last  for  a  few
seconds. They may be strong enough to knock items
from shelves, but otherwise they  do little damage.

In the World of Darkness, earth tremors contribute to
the overall sense of impending disaster in San Francisco.
Since the Kuei-jin’s arrival and the appearance of the Eye
of the Demon Emperor in the heavens, tremors in the Bay
Area  have increased in both frequency and intensity. The
Kuei-jin ascribe this to the awakening of the Earth Dragon
in response to the poisoning of the city’s Chi.

Proper feng shui might avert another terrible earthquake
by soothing  the dragon lines, but most Kuei-jin are far too
busy mollifying the city to worry about pacifying the Earth
itself. Doomsayers claim it’s only a matter of time before
“the Big One”  hits, an earthquake that will make the 1906
quake pale in comparison. Then the conflict between the
Kuei-jin and the Kindred will be largely moot.

Bay. It is part of the great Dragon Kingdom of the Sea,
which claims dominion over the Pacific Ocean and all
that  it  touches.  Fantastic  coral  palaces  stand  in  the
Yang World,  inlaid with gold and pearls and guarded
by the fierce Same-Bito samurai of the Dragon King.
Hsien and hengeyokai  associated with water are found
here, along with their Western counterparts (although
most Western Yang folk prefer the dry land).

The  Dragon  King  of  the  Sea  generally  does  not
welcome  Kuei-jin  into  his  domains.  Proper  respect
along with a tribute of gold, jade, pearls and so forth
can  convince  the  Golden  Mandarin  of  the  Bay  to
permit  Kuei-jin  to  pass  unmolested,  so  long  as  their
passage is brief. This allows brave vampires to travel
through  the  Yang  World  across  the  bay  to  enter  or
leave the city, thus bypassing the Tremere’s wards.
THE YOMI WORLD

The Kuei-jin carry Hell with them wherever they
go. San Francisco is proof of that. The Yomi World’s
power has become  increasingly clear since the creation
of the New Promise Mandarinate, though Yomi first
touched the city streets long before that. The Cloud
Mandarins  and  their  underlings  watch  carefully  for
signs of the Yama Kings and their akuma  servants, but
find only dead trails and restless omens.

Some  Kuei-jin  believe  the  local  Kin-jin’s  presence
corrupts the city and brings it closer to the Yama Kings’ rule,

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

while  others  point  to  inauspicious  feng  shui    and  the
befouling  of  the  dragon  nests.  A  few  wonder  if  the  ill-
advised expansion of the Two-Fang Serpent Plan to include
San  Francisco  aggravates  the  city’s  current  condition,
though they keep those thoughts mostly to themselves. No
Kuei-jin wants to risk censure as akuma for speculating too
greatly on the nature of the Yama Kings.
THE WICKED CITY

The most influential of San Francisco’s Yomi World
rulers is Mikaboshi, Lord of the Wicked City. He was
drawn  to  the  uncontrolled  growth  of  San  Francisco
more  than  a  century  ago,  when  his  realm  began
prospering and the first Chinese immigrants set foot in
their so-called “golden land.” They found hard work,
prejudice and struggle, while  Mikaboshi found a place
after  his  own  malignant  heart.  He  resolved  then  to
make it part of his domain.

Mikaboshi’s  cosmopolitan  view  serves  him  well.
Now the August Courts struggle to control the  city
while Mikaboshi’s akuma servants, the Hollow City wu
(p.  98),  wait  and  watch  from  the  shadows,  ready  to
accomplish  his  bidding.  If  a  Wan  Kuei  falters,  the
Hollow City is there to offer their master’s gifts. If the
New Promise Mandarinate fails, Mikaboshi’s demonic
hounds will tear it limb from limb.

Already,  the  Wicked  City  bleeds  and  oozes  into
San  Francisco’s  nighttime  streets;  it  festers  in  the
Tenderloin,  Bayview  and  other  places  overcome  by
urban  blight,  their  Chi  twisted  and  poisoned  by
inauspicious feng shui  and the subtle work of Mikaboshi’s
followers. Turn down the wrong alley in the Tenderloin,
step through the wrong doorway in a dark and strange
neighborhood, and you may find yourself looking up at
the looming towers of the Wicked City under a swollen,
blood-red moon.

The  Kuei-jin  call  these  places  “broken  mirrors”
(See Killing Streets, pp. 105-107 for more information).
Thanks  to  San  Francisco’s  fog,  broken  mirrors  seem
like dreams pushed, even forced, to the surface. The
threshold between worlds is subtle and instantaneous,
catching  the  victim  unaware.  Only  too  late  do  they
realize they are trapped in a city unfamiliar too them.
Fortunately  this    rarely  happens,  but  instances  of
transposition are rising. The broken mirrors increase in
strength,  drawing  bakemono  into  this  world.  They
haunt the Tenderloin and Bayview predominantly so
far, picking up young men and women from local clubs
and  bars  and  dragging  them  back  to  their  world  for
some hellish games. Soon they’ll make the mistake of
taking  a  member  from  someone’  s  herd  or  Scarlet
Screen, drawing an investigating Kindred or Kuei-jin
into the Wicked City. That is, of course, if other events
don’t  draw  the  characters  first,  like  the  case  of  the
missing building.

San  Francisco’s  broken  mirrors  are  powerful,
possibly  more  powerful  than  the  Kuei-jin  have

CHAPTER FOUR: SAN FRANCISCO NIGHTS

75

encountered thus far. Things slip through both ways,
and  the  problem  worsens.  Already  mortals  and
bakemono find their way into each other’ s realms, but
recently, an abandoned building in the Tenderloin fell
through a broken mirror, where it remains lodged in-
between worlds like a chicken bone. The funny thing
about  broken  mirrors  is  that  the  neighborhood’  s
residents believe the building was torn down, but can’t
remember  when  it  happened.  Sometimes  at  night,
however,  the  building  simply  reappears  for  a  few
moments  in  the  wee  hours  of  the  morning,  bringing
with  it  another  bakemono,  or  worse,  fleeing  spirits
looking for bodies. Often it drags a curious bystander
back to the Yomi World. Enough people have seen the
building  to    turn  it  into  an  urban  legend.  Vampires,

however, should know that in the World of Darkness,
some legends hold merit — especially those circulating
the streets.

The  New  Promise  Mandarinate  remains  largely
ignorant  of  these  festering  sores  because    they
inadvertently penned the Kin-jin into them, turning
the  worst  parts  of  San  Francisco  into  virtual
concentration  camps.  The  Kuei-jin  blame  bad  joss
associated with the M-T Sectors or similar locales on
centuries  of  Kin-jin  depredation.  Surely  once  the
Mandarinate is in place and restores order such problems
will  fade.  Meanwhile,  the  Wicked  City  extends  its
roots deeper into San Francisco, and Mikaboshi looks
forward  to  the  day  when  his  Hell  erupts  from  the
sidewalks and streets, raising him up to the throne of
the Demon Emperor.

76

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

CHAPTER FIVE: HONORED SHEN

77

Chapter Five:
Honored Shen

Narrator: Farewell to this world, and to the night farewell.
We who walk the road to death, to what should we be likened?
To the frost by the road that leads to the graveyard,
Vanishing with each step we take ahead:
How sad is this dream of a dream!
—Chikamatsu Monzaemon, The Love Suicides at Sonezaki

The arrival of Kuei-jin in force and the rise of the New
Promise  Mandarinate  bloats  San  Francisco’  s  unliving
population to dangerous proportions, while Kuei-jin force
more  Kindred  into  increasingly  close  quarters,  leaving
them to fend for themselves as best they can. Despite the
Mandarinate’s claims of equality and promotion based on
merit, Kindred are still “barbarians”  by Kuei-jin standards,
not  to  be  trusted  or  given  any  more  authority  than
absolutely necessary. Only a few Kin-jin turncoats and
sycophants  possess  any  power  in  the  new  regime,  and
they’re responsible for ensuring their peers toe the line —
or else.

In addition, anarch refugees and Sabbat opportunists
swell the city’s vampire population. The Camarilla sends
new Kindred into the region to rally their members and
provide a barrier against Cathayan expansion. With the
addition  of  the  Lupines  declaring  open  season  on  any
blood-sucker leaving the city, the San Francisco Bay area
is a pressure cooker for local shen, one that may explode at
any moment.

THE NEW PROMISE
MANDARINATE

The New Promise Mandarinate and its Kuei-jin are
currently the strongest power bloc in San Francisco, but
their    position  is  a  precarious  one.  Although  the
Mandarinate had some success in pacifying Los Angeles
and  bringing  San  Francisco  under  control,  rumors  say
they overreached themselves. Their enemies within the
Quincunx believe it is only a matter of time before the
Mandarinate’s  Fence  Menders  commit  a  fatal  mistake
that  will  incur  the  displeasure  of  the  August  Courts’
Ancestors.  The  Fence-Mender  faction  struggles  to
strengthen its position in San Francisco and Los Angeles
and avoid any such blunders. So far, they are successful,
but  how  long  they  can  maintain  their  present  course
remains to be seen.

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

of the Foreigner-Vanquishing Crusaders, which called for
a campaign against the unrighteous Kin-jin in their own
lands. The Fence Menders said that to strike against the
Kin-jin while corruption and conflict riddled the Middle
Kingdom’ s August Courts was akin to pulling weeds in
the garden while one’s house was on fire. Now they find
themselves uprooting weeds while smoke rises back home.
The Fence Menders never intended for matters to go
this  far.  When  Righteous  Crusader  Hao  Wei-Liang’s
invasion  of  Los  Angeles  faltered,  his  enemies  eagerly
stepped in and succeeded where he failed by forging an
alliance with the Kin-jin and creating the New Promise
Mandarinate. When Kin-jin negotiations to secure Los
Angeles  broke  down,  however,  the  Fence  Menders
discovered they had to seize San Francisco as well, giving
them two foreign cities to pacify and control while  still
juggling agendas back home. Almost against their wills,
the  Fence  Menders  do  the  very  things  they  spoke  out
against, and cannot stop for fear their current achievements
would crumble to dust. They must go forward and  hope it
is not too late to avoid a collision with destiny.
JIEJIE LI

Elder  Sister  Plum,  Bone  Flower  Ancestor  of  the

Extraordinary Commission
Nature: Director
Demeanor: Visionary
P’o Nature: Slave
Second Breath: Unknown
Apparent Age: Early teens
 Jiejie Li stands calmly at the center of the whirlwind
of  activity  and  controversy  whipping  around  the
Harmonious  Menders  of  Broken  Fences  and  the  Two-
Fang Serpent Plan. She betrays no hint of the incredible
responsibility  resting on her slim shoulders. To a cursory
glance, she looks like a thin waif, barely into her teens.

78

CHANGING THE PIECES ON THE BOARD

Although  this  chapter  offers  various  ways  to
forge ties between the characters and San Francisco’s
various personalities, the Storyteller may give existing
roles to players to help relate a particular story. This
is perfectly valid, and the Storyteller should feel free
to alter, add to or delete characters from this chapter
as needed. For example, the Storyteller may run a
chronicle where the members of the troupe portray
San Francisco’ s Cloud Mandarins, forced to work
together for the New Promise Mandarinate but also
pursuing their own ends and the chance of becoming
the city’ s ancestor. The Storyteller may offer players
the opportunity to play supporting characters like Lili
Zhou  or  Song  Feng,  adding  new  character
interpretations to the mix. The Storyteller may also
dump existing characters and ask players to create an
entirely new group (putting their own stamp on the
setting and chronicle).

Likewise, the Storyteller may include a regular
nemesis better suited to the chronicle than Chan Te
and  his  Hollow  City wu,  or  use  other shen    for  a
crossover  game.  Changing  some  of  the  major
supporting characters around can also help maintain
the  element  of  surprise  for  players  who  read  this
book.  For  more  on  running  a  high-level  political
game in San Francisco, see Chapter Six.

As  a  final  caveat,  many  of  the  personalities
discussed herein are the likeliest movers and shakers
of San Francisco’s political gumbo soup. They are
not the be-all-end-all of local vampires, but they are
pivot  points  around    which  everything  revolves.
The Storyteller has free reign to create lieutenants
and foot soldiers as the need arises. Better yet, many
such positions remain open to facilitate character
involvement  in  local  politics.  These  supporting
characters  merely  represent  the  wide  gamut  of
machinations,  interests  and  agendas  extant  in
tumultuous San Francisco.

THE HARMONIOUS MENDERS OF
BROKEN FENCES

For the moment, the Kuei-jin political faction known as
the Harmonious Menders of Broken Fences enjoys considerable
success. The Quincunx reclaimed the Flesh Court capitol of
Shanghai  from  the  infesting  akuma  and  made  strides  in
regaining the Flame Court capitol of Hong Kong from Kin-jin
control. They also secured the defection of a powerful Kindred,
the Tremere warlock Oliver Thrace, giving them additional
information about the Kin-jin and their abilities.

The Fence Menders have been successful abroad as
well, perhaps too successful for their tastes. The faction
spoke against the Great Leap Outward and the Ash Plan

79

accept peace in the cities at any price and ignores the
potential threat of the Kin-jin, particularly the regular
interaction  between  Kindred  and  Kuei-jin  within  the
Mandarinate. She is so certain of Kuei-jin philosophical
and ideological superiority that she ignores the possibility
that the Kin-jin influence her people nearly as much as
the Mandarinate “civilizes”  the Kin-jin barbarians.

Elder  Sister  Plum  also  faces  challenges  from  her
political rivals, who do their utmost to undermine her
efforts and disgrace her in the eyes of the August Courts.
The rumors claiming Jiejie Li has a taste for human flesh
and engages in other degenerate acts are only one example
of  this.  The  Righteous  Crusaders’    efforts  to  draw  the
Fence Menders further toward the Ash Plan are another.
Still, if the Elder Sister can navigate the field of thorns
created by her enemies and emerge successful, she will be
in a position of great power within the Courts, just in time
to face what might be the greatest threat of all: the arrival
of the Sixth Age. It is little surprise that Li sometimes
wonders if the struggle is worth the effort.
CHIU BAO

First Oni, Devil Tiger Mandarin of the Extraordinary

Commission

Nature: Perfectionist
Demeanor: Rogue
P’o Nature: Monkey
Second Breath: 1631 CE
Apparent Age: Early 30s
Jiejie Li’s second-in-command and strong right hand is
an  experienced  general,  tested  both  on  the  political
battlefield and in many Midnight Wars. More importantly,
Chiu Bao is a capable and clever politician who knows how
to pursue his goals in a deliberate and direct fashion without
exposing his throat to his political enemies. Some say it’ s
an unusual quality in a Twice-Crimson Tiger.

CHAPTER FIVE: HONORED SHEN

Her soft voice carries the power of authority and centuries
of experience behind it, however, and  her eyes are as hard
and cold as metal.

The Elder Sister Plum has a long history in diplomacy
and politics. She served as chief lieutenant to the Jade Court
Ancestor for over four decades prior to her appointment as
Ancestor  of  the  Extraordinary  Commission  on  the
Rectification of Borders. During those decades, her voice
sang out constantly in Kuei-jin politics. Her writings, such as
her political novel Seven Bone Oil , are likewise well known.
Although she supports the cause of righteousness and proper-
action within the August Courts, she is not as reactionary as
many Resplendent Cranes, nor as revolutionary as the most
extreme  Devil  Tigers.  This  moderation  appeals  to  many
Kuei-jin, earning her several supporters.

The Elder Sister focuses more of her attention on the
Middle Kingdom than on the Yin World. She prefers to
deal with fellow Wan Kuei instead of ghosts. She makes
it clear that she considers the Yellow Springs’ ruler in the
Yin World, Yu Huang, either a Yama King or their ally.
This is not a popular opinion, given the August Courts’
cooperation  and  alliances  with  Yu  Huang  in  the  past.
Jiejie  Li  stops  short  of  accusing  the  August  Courts’
Ancestors of consorting with the Yama Kings, but her
criticisms  of  Yu  Huang  leave  little  to  interpretation.
Regardless, Elder Sister Plum makes it clear that the New
Promise Mandarinate will have nothing to do with the
Yellow Springs’  forces following the disastrous Yin World
storm  that  smashed  Hao  Wei-Liang’s  invasion  of  Los
Angeles. It’s clear for the time being that the inhabitants
of the Yin World are not reliable.

Having successfully guided the Fence Menders faction
and  overseen  the  creation  of  the  New  Promise
Mandarinate, Jiejie  Li now tastes the fruits of her labor,
and some of them are bitter. Although she would prefer
not to waste effort and resources in claiming and holding
distant foreign cities, she knows full well that any attempt
to loosen the August Courts’  grasping hands will turn
those  hands  on  her  throat  instead.  She  cannot  show
weakness, lest her enemies descend upon her like a pack
of ravenous wolves.

With this in mind, Jiejie Li works towards peace and
stability  in  Los  Angeles  and  San  Francisco,  humbly
claiming credit for any successes while  carefully shifting
blame for any failures to her underlings or even to the
August Courts’ Ancestors themselves (without stating so
openly). As example of her cunning, she carefully defers
to the Quincunx in choosing an ancestor for San Francisco.
It is important the final choice comes from the Honored
Ancestors, but Li carefully winnowed the field down to
candidates she finds acceptable. Let the ancestors choose
whom they will, so long as she controls their selection.
The  Elder  Sister’s  desire  to  rid  herself  of  the
responsibility of overseeing foreign cities may prove her
downfall. She pays less attention to the small details of her
charges, leaving such matters to her lieutenant, Chiu Bao,
and  to the mandarins of both cities. She is willing to

80

For the past century or so, Chiu Bao’ s political goals
focused on making the August Courts aware of the dangers
stemming from the impending Age of Sorrows. In his eyes,
the Courts squander resources and effort on meaningless
struggles when they should be unifying against the akuma
and other agents of the Yama Kings, fortifying the Middle
Kingdom  from  the  coming  storm.  This  outlook  placed
him  firmly  with  the  Harmonious  Menders  of  Broken
Fences;  he  is  a  vocal  supporter  of  efforts  to  free  the
Quincunx’s  occupied  capitols  and  secure  the  Middle
Kingdom’s borders, rather than whipping the Running
Monkeys into a frenzy with crusades in foreign lands.

At least part of Chiu Bao’s political stance stems from
his role as a “family man.” He makes his home in the hills
of southern China with a clan of his dhampyr children. He
believes  local  concerns  far  outweigh  problems  abroad,
and that one should put one’ s own house in order before
waging war. More volatile Devil Tigers believe Chiu Bao
an inflexible bureaucrat trying to hold on to his position,
but the Fence Menders and Bamboo Princes believe him
eminently practical and wise. To him, even the Two-Fang
Serpent  Plan  was  too  great  a  compromise,  and  he  was
hardly surprised when the invasion of Los Angeles faltered.
When  the  Quincunx  tasked  the  Extraordinary
Commission  with  completing  the  work  the  Glorious
Ocean-Crossing Warriors began, Chiu Bao’s goal was to
resolve the matter as quickly as possible.

Co-opting the anarchs seemed an effective strategy,
but Bao worries about the long-term effects of incorporating
Kin-jin into the New Promise Mandarinate, and therefore
into  the Quincunx. The foreign barbarians are devious
and untrustworthy, but it’s currently impractical to wipe
them  out  —  their  cooperation  is  necessary  for  the
occupation to succeed. There is even a glimmer of hope
that  the  Kin-jin  can  become  soldiers  in  the  struggle
against the Yama Kings and Demon Emperor’s rise, but
only if the whole delicate house of cards doesn’t crash.

The Extraordinary Commission’s First Oni spends his
time traveling between Los Angeles, San Francisco, Hong
Kong and Beijing, putting out fires and standing on the
front lines of the Fence Menders’  political battles. What he
sees in North America does not please him, and he currently
favors harsher methods of keeping the Kin-jin in line. Thus
far, Jiejie Li’s cooler head prevails over her Yang-aspected
general. Chiu Bao is loyal, but he’s also no fool. He’s aware
the August Courts want to crush the Fence Mender faction
and return to the status quo, so he readies for the hammer’
s fall. When it happens, the Elder Sister Plum will learn that
Chiu Bao is a survivor above all else.

The  First  Oni  is  the  elder  most  often  seen  in  San
Francisco. He brings news of the August Courts and deals
with any outstanding problems plaguing the mandarins.
He considers Jochen Van Nuys (the Kin-jin he deals with
most often) a weak-willed fool, but well suited for his role
in keeping his fellow barbarians behaved.

Chiu Bao rarely fits the image of a Quincunx mandarin.
He wears formal robes only when protocol demands it.

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

The  remaining  time  he  dresses  like  a  grunge  rustic,  in
beat-up overalls or jeans, with tennis shoes or sandals and
a t-shirt or tank top, with or without a flannel overshirt.
He finds this leads many people to underestimate him,
much to their regret.
THE CLOUD MANDARINS

San Francisco remains without an ancestor while the
Honored Ancestors of the August Courts decide on a worthy
candidate  who  can  initiate  the  Quincunx’s  plans  for  the
future. For the time being, the city’s most senior mandarins
govern  its    affairs.  The  mandarins  each  possess  private
agendas, making it more difficult for the Kuei-jin to present
the Kindred with a unified front. The city’s Kuei-jin and
those in the Middle Kingdom now refer to San Francisco’s
pro temp rulers as “the Cloud Mandarins,” a snide reference
to both the city’s famous fog and how their political situation
seemingly changes direction with the winds.
     It remains to be seen who becomes the city’s ancestor,
though there are some clear contenders for the position.
Jiejie  Li  carefully  avoids  showing  too  much  favor  to  a
candidate, not knowing which way the August Courts’
Ancestors might lean. Clearly, she wants someone loyal
to the Fence Menders’ ideals. She also wants someone
suitable in the Courts’  eyes and capable of doing the job,
since  their  performance  reflects  on  her  and  the
Extraordinary Commission. To this end, she maintains
careful ties with the front-runners, hoping to ensure the
loyalty of whoever assumes the role.

On an additional note, only the Cloud Mandarins,
Wan Zhu, Jiejie Li and Oliver Thrace know about the
ritual to destroy the Tremere’s Ward versus Cathayans
(see  Obliterate  the  Battlements,  p.  131).  The  Cloud
Mandarins and Jiejie Li keep it a secret in order to hem the
Foreigner-Vanquishing Crusaders in San Francisco while
they reevaluate the success of their invasion and position
Van  Nuys  into  greater  power  with  the  Camarilla.
Currently, the Cloud Mandarins  are set up to appear the
villains, with their private threats to destroy the regional
Kindred over the wards (a threat they expressed to Van
Nuys to ensure  he approached the Inner Circle directly
about the problem).
HAN HUI

Resplendent Crane Mandarin of the New Promise
Background: Kuei-jin know little of Han Hui’ s life
before  she  took  the  Second  Breath  and  almost  as  little
about the early nights of her existence, which is just as she
prefers it. Rumors abound, of course, ranging from tales of
her life during the Opium Wars to her death at the hands
of Communist soldiers in the 1960s (which would make her
an extraordinarily young mandarin). Han Hui allows these
rumors to circulate without comment, since they only add
to her mystique and help confuse potential enemies.

In fact, the Resplendent Crane Mandarin took the
Second  Breath  at  the  end  of  the  19th  century,  in  the
waters  off  Macao’  s  coast.  Her  teacher  and  mentor  in

CHAPTER FIVE: HONORED SHEN

81

Han Hui became known for accomplishing tasks in
Los  Angeles  and  San  Francisco,  a  quality  the  August
Courts need at this time. She is not entirely loyal to the
Fence  Menders  faction.  Concerns  exist  about  her
willingness  to  ignore  tradition  in  pursuit  of  her  goals,
especially  when  combined    with  her  talent  for  subtle
political  manipulation  (more  subtle  than  most  of  her
enemies realize). Still, she may prove the least problematic
choice in the eyes of the Honored Ancestors. As an eager
reformist, she understands and desires the influence she
could wield as San Francisco’s ancestor. The end result of
that knowledge means that means she will remove anyone
who proves a threat to her ambitions. Her methods will be
as subtle as possible, but no less decisive— or permanent.
Image: Han Hui is a slight woman whose size and
build belies her considerable strength and stamina. She
wears  her  hair  fairly  short,  emulating  any  number  of
modern styles. She likewise prefers contemporary clothing
— from jeans and boots to a finely tailored power suit. She
often wears sunglasses, and likes long, flowing coats (the
better to conceal a weapon or two). Her appearance is
otherwise  plain,  but  she  radiates  confidence  and
competence. She’s gregarious rather than seductive, and
has a way of sounding reasonable regardless her statements.
Roleplaying  Notes: You have a vision, which you
dedicate  your  existence  to  making  a  reality.  The
Quincunx’s Courts are so bound by ancient tradition and
political games that they’ve become powerless, allowing
gweilo to ride them roughshod. Even with the Sixth Age
staring them in the face, they refuse to change, but they
must if they want to survive... and you will show them
how.  The  Kuei-jin  must  hold  on  to  the  core  of  their
ancient heritage and discard what does not serve them in
this new age. In the past, you placed your hopes for reform
in  others,  but  they  always  disappointed  you.  Now  you
realize there’s no one else who can do what needs to be
done. It’s up to you.
Nature: Architect
P’o Nature: Barbarian
Demeanor: Competitor
Balance: Balanced
Direction: East
Dharma: Way of the Resplendent Crane 5
Attributes: Strength 3, Dexterity 3, Stamina 4, Charisma
4,  Manipulation  4,  Appearance  2,  Perception  4,
Intelligence 5, Wits 4
Abilities:  Alertness 3, Athletics 3, Brawl 2, Dodge 4,
Empathy 3, Expression 3, Intimidation 2, Leadership 5,
Streetwise 3, Subterfuge 5, Etiquette 3, Firearms 2, Martial
Arts 3, Enigmas 3, Investigation 4, Linguistics 2, Occult
3, Politics 4, Rituals 3
Disciplines: Black Wind 2, Blood Shintai 2, Internalize
4, Obligation 4
Backgrounds:  Allies  3,  Contacts  5,  Horoscope  3,
Resources 4
Yin: 4, Yang: 4, Hun: 5, P’o: 4, Willpower: 8

unlife was Tang Bei, a Resplendent Crane of the Empty
Throne sect. Under his tutelage, Han Hui learned the
value of subtlety, since Macao’ s Kuei-jin existed under
the foreign rule of the Portuguese and their accompanying
Kin-jin. Han Hui learned her lessons well, but eventually
became disillusioned with Tang Bei’ s conservative and
cautious ways. Subtlety was important, but so was action,
and the Empty Throne sect would likely wait until the
Sixth Age arrived before taking decisive measures.

In  the  early  1960s,  Han  Hui  made  her  way  to
Guangdong  and  earned  a  place  in  the  August  Courts.
There she found like-minded Kuei-jin among the Bamboo
Princes,  though  she  was  wise  enough  to  conceal  her
sympathies and not voice them too loudly. Instead, she
offered her services to the Courts in the Middle Kingdom’
s  most  difficult  and  dangerous  places.  She  achieved  a
reputation  for  results,  which  allowed  the  Honored
Ancestors to overlook her other faults, like her disdain for
convention. Her wu , the Violet Path Posse, comprised
like-minded  young  Kuei-jin  who  rose  in  the  August
Courts’  esteem  for  their  aid  in  restoring  Macao  to  the
Quincunx, followed by their work in Shanghai against
the akuma.

The Violet Path Posse traveled to San Diego at the
request of the Ancestors. There they met stiff resistance
from the local anarchs, forcing them to withdraw and help
the Los Angeles initiative. During that campaign, Han
Hui worked with other Kuei-jin progressives like Fun Toy
and Monkey Trip Wu, only to discover they didn’t meet
her expectations. Instead, many so-called “progressives”
had no interest in modernizing the August Courts. They
sought to tear them down and replace them, or else were
solely interested in their private agendas. Although she
continued to support her peers, Han Hui distanced herself
from those she found unworthy. This probably saved Han
Hui when Monkey Trip Wu lost his ancestorship in Los
Angeles (detailed in  Dharma Book: Thrashing Dragons).

82
LILI ZHOU

Bone Flower Mandarin of the New Promise
Background: Near the turn of the century, Lili Zhou
worked as an interpreter at Hong Kong’ s British Consulate.
When an assistant to the consul raped and murdered her,
it  caused  a  spot  of  tension  between  the  British  and
Chinese governments before they quietly swept the entire
matter under the rug and forgot about it.

Lili, however, would never forget. Her soul suffered
for months in Yomi until she escaped and took the Second
Breath. She then set about avenging herself. The Kuei-jin
followed the trail of murdered and half-eaten Britons and
quickly found her. It was another matter handled quietly
and soon forgotten — again, by everyone except Lili.

After training to master her Demon, Lili followed the
Howl of the Devil-Tiger Dharma. She satisfied her thirst
for  vengeance  on  the  gweilo  as  part  of  the  Victorious
Whirlwind wu  and their fight to reclaim Hong Kong for
the Flame Court. Eventually, however, her temper cooled,
and she found no meaning in the ways of the Heavenly
Devils. She sought to hide her confusion in blood,  almost
single-handedly rooting out several of Hong Kong’s Kin-
jin  and  savagely  sending  them  to  their  Final  Deaths.
Afterward, though, she felt no triumph — only a gnawing
emptiness.  Finally,  epiphany  opened  her  eyes  and  she
realized her true path. She left the Devil-Tiger Dharma
behind and listened to the Song of the Shadow.

Lili  faced  prejudice  from  both  former  and  new
associates over her change of heart, but she eventually
joined  the  Metal  Dragon  Talon  wu,  made  up  of  Bone
Flowers. The wu’s other members were less than pleased
with  the  notion,  but  had  little  choice  but  accept  the
mandarin’s decision. Lili quickly proved her worth with
her  dedication  and  skill,  winning  the  admiration  and
respect of her wu . The Metal Dragon Talon became an
effective weapon in the battle for Hong Kong, but the

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

ancestors decided they would be even more effective in
gaining control over San Francisco.

Lili and her corpse family were among the first Kuei-jin
to touch the shores of San Francisco as part of the silent
invasion.  Before  the  Kin-jin  understood  the  unfolding
danger, two of the city’ s primogen met Final Death and the
city all but belonged to the Quincunx. As a reward for her
work, Lili became a New Promise Mandarin; the August
Courts, however, promoted her with an eye on keeping her
in San Francisco and away from the Middle Kingdom.

Lili knows full well there are still those who view her
change in Dharma with suspicion, and her rapid rise with
envy and fear. She accepts the accolades of the August
Courts and her “exile” to San Francisco because she sees
potential in the New Promise Mandarinate, and intends
to surprise those who think to “honor” her into obscurity.
Currently,  Lili  is  Jiejie  Li’s  favored  choice  as  San
Francisco’s Ancestor. While Lili admires the Bone Flower
Ancestor and respects her work, she’ s not a devotee of the
Harmonious Menders of Broken Fences or their ideals. In
truth,  this  serves  the  Elder  Sister  Plum  well.  This  way
nobody can accuse her of appointing a sycophant in Lili,
who is more of a traditionalist —  though not necessarily
enough of one to satisfy the August Courts.

Image:  Lili  Zhou  possesses  the  beauty  —  and  cold
touch — of a finely crafted statue. It is a beauty that brought
about her death, and one she has  honed into a weapon
since taking the Second Breath. She has long midnight hair
that usually falls in cascades around her expressionless face
with its fine porcelain skin.  She wears her hair up when she
requires  stealth  or  must  act  quickly.  She  is  tall  with  a
statuesque figure; lean and agile.  She prefers dressing in
tight black clothing for all but the most formal occasions,
and even then favors black robes with accents of white,
yellow and the pink of faded cherry blossoms.

Roleplaying Notes: Once you raged and screamed
until your throat was bare and your spirit spent. Now you
grow  comfortable  in  your  emptiness  and  cultivate  the
Cold Mind, allowing you to calm your fury and see clearly.
You find it unfortunate that  so many others lack your
clarity of thought and vision, but you understand it is your
duty to guide them toward righteous action. You see too
many followers of your own Dharma trapped in inaction
and indecision. The key is to still the mind so that action
is effortless, in harmony with the Way. That is why you
accomplish what you must, without fear or regret, and
why in the end you will succeed.
Nature: Fanatic
P’o Nature: Slave
Demeanor: Judge
Balance: Yin
Direction: South
Dharma: The Song of the Shadow 5
Attributes: Strength 2, Dexterity 4, Stamina 3, Charisma
3,  Manipulation  2,  Appearance  3,  Perception  3,
Intelligence 3, Wits 3

CHAPTER FIVE: HONORED SHEN

Abilities: Alertness 2, Athletics 2, Dodge 4, Empathy 1,
Enigmas  3,  Etiquette  3,  Expression  3,  Investigation  2,
Linguistics 4, Martial Arts 4, Melee 3, Occult 2, Rituals 3,
Stealth 2, Streetwise 2, Subterfuge 4, Survival 1
Disciplines:  Bone  Shintai  4,  Demon  Shintai  3,  Flesh
Shintai 2, Yin Prana 3
Backgrounds: Allies 2, Contacts 3, Horoscope 2
Yin: 6, Yang: 4, Hun: 4, P’o: 5, Willpower: 8
SONG FENG

Devil Tiger Mandarin of the New Promise
Background:  Opportunities  abounded  in  turn-of-
the-century  Hong  Kong  for  both  Europeans  and  those
Chinese willing to either work for gweilo  masters or turn
to crime. Song Feng did both. He served as an accountant
for a British shipping company while secretly providing
his services to the Heaven and Earth Society, an influential
Triad using the company’ s resources to smuggle contraband
in and out of Hong Kong. Song Feng enjoyed the high life
bought through his illegal gains, but it caught up with him
when  his  employers  discovered  his  “moonlighting.”
Fearing the authorities, Feng ran to his criminal associates
for aid; they decided it was best if the trail ended with him.
Shortly thereafter, police found Song Feng executed as a
warning  to  anyone  who  crossed  the  Triads.  Not    long
afterwards, his unleashed P’o rose from Yomi and he took
the Second Breath.

What arose in Song Feng’s place was the antithesis of
the scheming and weak man he had been; instead it was
a marvelous devil of hatred and hunger. He fell upon the
men of the Heaven and Earth Society, quickly drawing
the  attention  of  other  Kuei-jin  who  captured  him  and
helped  leash  the  raging  Demon.  He  learned  from  the
talons  and  hot  irons  of  the  August  Body  of  Sagacious
Devils.  It    was  almost  a  forgone  conclusion  he  would

83

choose the Howl of the Devil Tiger as his Dharma upon
entering Kuei-jin society.

Song  Feng  didn’t  allow  his  innate  cleverness  or
knowledge to drown in blood, however. He realized they
were  some  of  the  most  important  traits  he  offered  the
August Courts, along with a desire to punish the wicked
and cast foreigners from the Middle Kingdom’s shores.
His  rise  through  the  ranks  and  his  work  with  various
Scarlet Screens drew the attention of the Electric Money
Wickedness Club (see  Dharma Book: Devil Tigers, p.
44), which recruited Feng for their operations. Feng truly
found an environment where he thrived.

A combination of business sense and utter ruthlessness
made Feng invaluable to the mandarins and ancestors of
the  club’s  Board  of  Directors.  He  personally  handled
operations abroad, and was as comfortable working via a
cell phone or laptop as he was taking a direct hand in
matters. He remained politically conservative enough to
satisfy the August Courts but progressive enough to serve
the Wickedness Club and its Board effectively. His insight
exposed several Ventrue and Tremere financial weaknesses
in  Hong  Kong  that  the  club  exploited,  weakening  the
Kin-jin’s power base.

It was that expertise that made Feng an ideal choice to
handle the more esoteric business matters  concerning the
New  Promise  Mandarinate.  He  jumped  at  the  chance,
understanding the value of San Francisco like few others in
the August Courts. Unlike the traditionalists, Song Feng
has  no  illusions  about  the  Middle  Kingdom’s    imposed
isolation from the rest of the world. It’s too late for that. If
the Kuei-jin are to survive the Sixth Age, then they must
expand and strengthen their domain’ s borders. More so,
they must have allies, while ensuring no enemies lie at their
backs. Feng is uncertain about the Kin-jin, but he does see
San Francisco as an important part of the future.

Image: With his thin build and unassuming manner,
Song Feng doesn’t fit the image of a Devil Tiger warrior.
Anyone looking into his dark eyes, however, can see the
burning embers of a  true Heavenly Devil staring back. He
usually dresses in dark, conservative business suits, always
with a tie and jacket although  he frequently takes the
jacket off when working indoors. He wears stylish horn-
rimmed glasses, but he doesn’t need them. Stripping away
the  glasses,  shirt  and  tie  reveals  the  Devil  beneath.
Elaborate tattoos that are  marked by scars adorn Song
Feng’s  chest  and  back.  In  battle,  he  prefers  to  fight
shirtless and wear only loose-fitting pants.

Roleplaying Notes: Once everyone used and then
ignored you, but you will not be denied any longer. Now
others  obey,  respect  and  fear  you.  You  are  confident,
assured you possess an advantage because you understand
the modern world and its intricacies. Your superiors often
rely on you for your expertise, and San Francisco is the
perfect  environment  to  show  everyone  what  you  can
accomplish.  You  plan  to  stay  a  while,  and  that  means
ensuring you call the shots.

84

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

Nature: Judge
P’o Nature: Barbarian
Demeanor: Competitor
Balance: Balanced
Direction: East
Dharma: Howl of the Devil Tiger 5
Attributes: Strength 3, Dexterity 4, Stamina 3, Charisma
3,  Manipulation  3,  Appearance  2,  Perception  3,
Intelligence 3, Wits 3
Abilities: Alertness 1, Athletics 2, Dodge 3, Empathy 2,
Intimidation 3, Leadership 2, Streetwise 1, Subterfuge 3,
Drive  1,  Etiquette  2,  Firearms  2,  Martial  Arts  3,
Performance  2,  Stealth  2,  Torture  3,  Academics  2,
Computer 2, Finance 4, Law 2, Linguistics 2, Politics 3
Disciplines:  Black  Wind  2,  Blood  Shintai  3,  Demon
Shintai 2, Internalize 2, Yang Prana 3
Backgrounds: Allies 2, Contacts 4, Resources 4
Yin: 4, Yang: 5, Hun: 4, P’o: 5, Willpower: 8
FU PENG

Minister of the Office of Eastern Affairs
Background: Fu Peng is not an ambitious man. All he
ever sought is to serve his betters well, even though they are
not always worthy of his skill. In fact, he  was once a mortal
minister to the Emperor himself, until he found a new master:
opium. He catered to his addiction with great attention and
neglected his duties, dying a broken and disgraced man. His
soul was drawn like smoke into the mouth of Yomi where he
suffered in the Hell of Being Burned Alive, the chains of
addiction fettering him and reminding him of his dishonor.
Although he was unable to break those chains in life, his
spirit proved  stronger in death.

Fu Peng struggled his way out of Yomi and back to the
body he left behind. For him, the hunger for Chi was a
familiar sensation, and he overcame the Demon with the
same sense of will and determination that won him his
freedom from Hell. He stared into the depths of his own
soul, felt the terrible tortures of Yomi and  awakened to
the Second Breath. Fu Peng dedicated his new existence
to humility and service. He proved an apt student and
eventually followed the Way of the Resplendent Crane,
seeking perfection within himself.

Remarkably  humble  for  a  Resplendent  Crane,  Fu
Peng found favor in the Blood Court from patrons eager
for his expertise. He proved an able administrator and
organizer.  He  was  diligent  and  skilled  and,  most
importantly, allowed his masters to claim credit for his
successes while he accepted the blame for their failures.
This led Fu Peng to his current position. When his master
helped bring about the downfall of Mandarin Hao Wei-
Liang  by  delaying  reinforcements  for  his  troops  in  Los
Angeles, the blame fell at Fu Peng’s feet. The Blood Court
quietly transferred him to San Francisco while they dealt
with  matters.  Not  long  thereafter,  documents  clearly
implicating Fu Peng’s master as akuma  surfaced and he

met the Eye of Heaven. Fu Peng’s only regret was that he
was not on hand to see it personally.

Jiejie Li appointed Fu Peng Minister of the Office of
Eastern  Affairs  in  San  Francisco,  placing  the  quiet  and
humble administrator in charge of keeping order in the city
and balancing the demands of the Cloud Mandarins. He
took to the challenge with great zeal, though it has proven
more difficult than he anticipated. Things work differently
in San Francisco, and people often sacrifice time-honored
techniques and traditions in the name of expediency.

In  addition,  there  are  always  the  Kin-jin  to  worry
about.  Fu  Peng  finds  his  Western  counterpart,  Jochen
Van Nuys, a useful resource in this regard, and he almost
enjoys the man’ s company. The Kindred, however, is still
far  too  enraptured  by  material  concerns  and  idle
amusement for Fu Peng’s taste.

Many of San Francisco’s vampires would be surprised
to  learn  that  Fu  Peng  doesn’t  possess  any  designs  on
becoming  the  city’s  ancestor,  nor  is  he  even  in  the
running. He’s perfectly content with the role of minister,
and intends to serve the new ancestor faithfully as the real
power behind the throne. Until the Quincunx chooses an
ancestor,  however,  Fu  Peng  strives  to  make  himself
indispensable to the mandarins.

Image:  Fu  Peng  looks  like  he  would  be  at  home
working in a small garden rather than a city. He was an old
man when he died, and his use of opium aged him further.
His face is deeply lined and his hair gray, but still abundant.
His fingernails are yellowed and long, and he always keeps
his  hands  neatly  folded  when  he  stands  or  speaks.  He
wears traditional Chinese clothing unless the situation
demands otherwise, and it surprises many when he suddenly
appears, thanks to his silent step.

Roleplaying Notes: You acted shamefully in your life but
you  earned  the  opportunity  for  redemption  in  the  eyes  of
Heaven through service in this unlife. You do not attend to any

CHAPTER FIVE: HONORED SHEN

one person, but to the cause of righteousness and reparation,
the creation of perfect order and harmony. You effect change
quietly, behind the scenes. Let others step forward to claim
leadership and make themselves targets. You know leaders
lead, but it is their followers who pursue action.
Nature: Perfectionist
P’o Nature: Barbarian
Demeanor: Curmudgeon
Balance: Balanced
Direction: North
Dharma: Way of the Resplendent Crane 4
Attributes: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, Stamina 2, Charisma
2,  Manipulation  4,  Appearance  2,  Perception  3,
Intelligence 2, Wits 4
Abilities: Alertness 3, Dodge 2, Empathy 2, Expression 1,
Subterfuge  4,  Etiquette  4,  Meditation  2,  Melee  1,
Performance 2, Stealth 3, Academics 1, Investigation 3,
Law 1, Linguistics 2, Medicine 1, Occult 1, Politics 3
Disciplines: Black Wind 1, Blood Shintai 2, Equilibrium
2, Tapestry 2
Backgrounds: Allies 2, Contacts 3
Yin: 4, Yang: 4, Hun: 5, P’o: 3, Willpower: 7
THE FOREIGNER-VANQUISHING
 CRUSADERS

Although  technically  a  part  of  the  New  Promise
Mandarinate by fiat of the Quincunx’s Honored Ancestors,
the  Foreigner-Vanquishing  Crusaders  find  themselves
torn between their duties and their ambitions. The faction
consists of Kuei-jin looking to repay the gweilo for the
troubles  they  visited  upon  the  Middle  Kingdom,  with
interest.  This  specifically  includes  the  Kin-jin,  whom
Kuei-jin blame for the August Courts’  corruption.

Normally the Crusaders would deem the invasion of
Los Angeles and San Francisco a success, except that a
rival faction — the Fence Menders — accomplished the
task,  making  it  their    victory.  Although  circumstance
forces the Fence Menders to carry out plans set in motion
by the  Crusaders, they also earn credit for their success.
Perhaps  more  grievous  an  insult,  the  Ancestors  try  to
silence those voices demanding more action. It is clear to
the  Crusaders  that    the  Quincunx  hopes  the  flame  of
retribution will gutter and die without the fuel of more
victories  to  keep  it  burning.  The  Crusaders’  loyalists,
however, do not intend to give them the satisfaction.

The Crusaders face the task of thwarting the Fence
Menders’ agendas while appearing loyal to the Quincunx’s
will, thus improving  their own chances at implementing
the Ash Plan (a glorious crusade against the unrighteous
that will surely draw the approval of Heaven). They hope
to embarrass the New Promise Mandarinate —  preferably
in such a way as to blame the Kin-jin, inflaming righteous
wrath  against  them  so  the  Ancestors  will  charge  the
Crusaders with wiping out the barbarians once and for all.

85

San  Francisco’s  Kindred  are  partially  aware  of  the
hawks and warmongers among the Cathayans, while the
Kuei-jin  are  fully  cognizant  of  the  Crusaders  and  their
intentions. Jiejie Li does her best to return known and
vocal members of the faction to other posts in the Middle
Kingdom, but even she cannot remove all of the supporters
without risking a backlash and sympathetic support for
the  Crusaders’  cause.  Already  the  righteous  Kuei-jin
displaced  from  their  glorious  crusade  raise  speculation
and rumor back home. Why does the Elder Sister Plum
want to take the Quincunx’ s finest soldiers and leaders off
the front lines? What does she fear from the righteous
devils who want only to fight corruption? The Elder Sister
maintains  that    the  New  Promise  Mandarinate  needs
diplomacy  and  subtlety,  not  warriors,  but  the  doubts
linger in the August Courts through whispers.

This is why Jiejie Li misleads the Crusaders into believing
they  haven’t  circumvented  the  wards  entirely  yet;  the
Crusaders  do  not  know  about  the  ritual  Obliterate  the
Battlements. She uses this falsehood to keep them reined  in.
As long as they labor under the assumption they remain
trapped, their ardor to continue their invasion across the
West Coast or usurp the Fence Menders cools in turn.
MAXIMUM SUN

Resplendent Crane Mandarin of the Emerald Ministry
Background:  The  Emerald  Ministry wu  Mandarin
has long been a rising star of the Blood Court and the
Quincunx.  He’s  ambitious  but    young  for  his  position,
having taken the Second Breath less than a century ago.
If  he  had  chosen  his  political  leanings  differently,  he
would almost certainly be one of San Francisco’s Cloud
Mandarins.  As  it  stands  now,  however,  there’s  little
chance Maximum Sun will hold power in the city, although
perhaps not so small a chance as some believe.

The highly conservative Sun quickly sided with the
Foreigner-Vanquishing  Crusaders  in  the  Blood  Court,
calling for action to stem the tide of corruption propelling
the world ever faster toward the Sixth Age. The Emerald
Ministry wu  was already well known for its martial outlook
and abilities as it guided several client wu, instructing them
in the arts of war. The Quincunx chose the Ministry to
spearhead the Los Angeles invasion, which it did, scoring
impressive victories against the Kin-jin. They also suffered
heavy losses both  when the anarch resistance struck back
hard and in the storm paralyzing the Yin world. Currently,
the Emerald Ministry controls only two other wu, formed
from the remains of its clients. Maximum  Sun looks to
recruit new jina and disciples to the cause.

The Emerald Ministry’s valiant action in battle allowed
them to remain in North America after Mandarin Hao
faced the Eye of Heaven and the Fence Menders assumed
operations  of  the  Glorious  Ocean-Crossing  Warriors.
Jiejie Li could not reassign Maximum Sun so easily, and he
didn’ t intend to allow the Fence Menders to run the show
unchallenged.  Instead,  the  Mandarin  and  his  Emerald
Ministry  have  become  the  unofficial  eyes  and  ears  of

86

conservatives within the August Courts. This suits the
Honored  Ancestors,  who  know  Maximum  Sun  would
gladly contribute to Jiejie Li’ s fall, if given the opportunity.
If the New Promise Mandarinate fails, then the Emerald
Ministry will gladly put it out of its misery. Such a service
to the Quincunx might earn Maximum Sun a promotion,
perhaps even to ancestor. He therefore watches for the
loose thread that will unravel the Fence Menders’ plans
and leave them vulnerable.

Under  normal  conditions,  the  Mandarin  of  the
Emerald Ministry would be content to wait and pick his
opportunities. Recent events, however, have  made that
more difficult. During the Los Angeles conflict, Maximum
Sun fell victim to a Kin-jin curse that rots his body from
the inside out, filling his guts and skull with maggots that
squirm unceasingly.  Sun has had no success in seeking a
cure  for  his  condition,  partially  because  there  are  few
Kuei-jin sorcerers in North America he trusts. His balance
toward Yin hindered the growth of the vermin, but not
the rotting of his innards. Sun slows that process down by
indulging in human flesh to replenish himself.  If the truth
of his condition and method of treatment were to surface,
the Emerald Mandarin would not survive the night. In
light of this, he carefully isolates himself and sees only his
most trusted underlings.

The Tremere who cast the curse met his Final Death
more than a year ago, but others (notably Luna Demain,
p. 110) can undo the spell. Maximum Sun knows the price
will be high, and is unwilling to even consider dealing
with the barbaric  Kin-jin at the moment. He’s aware of
Wan  Zhu  (p.  88)  and  wants  to  ascertain  her  loyalties
before approaching her about his problem. Although she
is a degenerate Kin-jin, she is at least Chinese with little
love for the Westerners.

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

Maximum Sun’s condition forces him — normally a
creature  of  action  —  to  accomplish  his  goals  through
underlings,  blinds  and  Scarlet  Screens.  He  has  agents
trying to learn more about the Kin-jin’ s occult secrets
(supposedly  to  overcome  threats  like  the  wards  placed
around San Francisco). He also has followers watching for
any sign of weakness on the New Promise Mandarinate’s
part, something the Crusaders can turn to their advantage
and use to expose the Mandarinate as a hollow sham.

Image:  Maximum  Sun  normally  cuts  an  imposing
figure. His composure is serene, his flesh like white jade and
he dons black garments of the Eightfold Yin Mantle, pure
Yin energy so dark it seems to soak up the light falling upon
his form. His appearance suffers from his curse. Yin energy
fills his corpse, rendering his gray flesh even more pallid and
pulling it tightly over his bones. His belly  swells lightly
from his decomposition and from  the swarming maggots,
which also make his voice hoarse and sometimes send him
into a coughing fit (which always dislodges a few maggots
from his throat). These days he favors more traditional,
loose-fitting  dark  robes  over  modern  suits.  Whenever
possible he keeps the environment around him very cold.
Stepping into his study or private limo is like walking into
a refrigerator. He smokes and uses copious incense to cover
the reek of decay clinging to his skin.

Roleplaying  Notes:  You  are  a  righteous  agent    of
Heaven and you will see the corruption threatening the
Middle Kingdom swept away in a cleansing fire. From the
ashes  will  arise  new  opportunities,  when  the  Honored
Ancestors recognize the virtue of your cause. You suffer
greatly, but that is to be expected. The righteous always
suffer, but you will persevere. You will overcome this curse
and any other obstacle in your path. You will be there
when the Quincunx stands in judgement of those who
would corrupt it by making alliances with the Kin-jin and
their degenerate ilk.
Nature: Deviant
P’o Nature: Barbarian
Demeanor: Traditionalist
Balance: Yin
Direction: South
Dharma: Way of the Resplendent Crane 5
Attributes: Strength 4, Dexterity 3, Stamina 5, Charisma
4,  Manipulation  2,  Appearance  3,  Perception  5,
Intelligence 3, Wits 4
Abilities: Alertness 2, Athletics 3, Dodge 4, Expression 2,
Intimidation 3, Leadership 3, Streetwise 2, Subterfuge 2,
Etiquette 2, Firearms 3, Martial Arts 4, Melee 3, Stealth 2,
Survival 2, Enigmas 1, Linguistics 2, Occult 2, Politics 3
Disciplines:  Black  Wind  3,  Blood  Shintai  3,  Ghost-
Flame Shintai 4, Obligation 3, Yin Prana 5
Backgrounds: Allies 2, Contacts 3, Resources 3
Yin: 5, Yang: 4, Hun: 5, P’o: 4, Willpower: 7

CHAPTER FIVE: HONORED SHEN
FEI CHIAN

Resplendent Crane Warrior of the Emerald Ministry
Background: Fei Chian’s mortal life left much to be
desired; wealth, freedom, opportunity… all lacking. He
saw the People’s Republic army as his chance to better his
life away  from his village and to make his family proud. He
was an officer by the time China entered the Korean War,
and he led his men on the battlefield to the best of his
ability. Chian keenly felt the loss of each casualty under
his  command.  He  considered  them  his  personal
responsibility, his personal failures. Their deaths haunted
his dreams until he could no longer endure the stress of
fighting. He could not live with the responsibility, so he
decided to abandon his post and surrender to the enemy.
Chian never really had the opportunity.

Not long after leaving camp, the enemy began their
offensive. Torn by the desire to flee and the need to help
his  men,  he  went  back.  A  sentry  mistook  him  for  the
enemy, however, and  shot him dead. His soul heavy with
guilt, Fei Chian fell into Yomi, where devils wearing faces
of men who died under his command forced him to relive
every moment of their terrible deaths. Chian sank into a
burning mire of shame and torment, but that small part of
him that instilled responsibility and forced him to turn
back rather than abandon his post ignited. His righteous
anger burned fiercely and he tore free from the iron barbs
digging deep into him. He fought his way from the depths
of the Yomi World and back into his body, in a bag at a
medical station.

The  disappearance  of  a  single  corpse  was  not  so
unusual. Fei Chian’s family, who were told he deserted his
post, hung their heads in shame over his cowardly death.
No  one  mourned  him  properly,  but  Fei  Chian  soon

87

learned it didn’t matter. He’d been given another chance.
In his time as a Blood Court hin, he quickly embraced the
Way of the Resplendent Crane. He was unworthy, but in
the  end  he  showed  a  moment  of  true  clarity  and
righteousness.  If  he  cultivated  those  qualities,  then  he
might find redemption. So, too, might the whole world, if
shown “the Way.”

Chian’s dedication to his duties earned him the praise
of teachers and the attention of Maximum Sun, of the
Emerald Ministry wu. He asked the young jina to join the
Flashing  Swords  wu  sponsored  by  the  Ministry,  which
Chian gladly accepted. He served the cause of righteousness
and  joined  his  brothers  and  sisters  in  supporting  the
Foreigner-Vanquishing  Crusaders  and  their  Ash  Plan.
The corrupt influences of the Kin-jin and other dupes of
the Yama Kings had to be uprooted.

Fei Chian saw action with the Flashing Swords in Los
Angeles, but only he and one other from his wu survived
the conflict with the Kin-jin. For his valor (which saved his
wu -mate from Final Death), Fei Chian replaced a fallen
member of the Emerald Ministry with great honor. Since
then,  Maximum  Sun  depends  on  Chian  to  accomplish
matters  and  act  as  his  hands,  eyes  and  voice  while  the
Mandarin  isolates  himself.  Fei  Chian  knows  about
Maximum Sun’s condition and blames it entirely on Kin-
jin  as  a  whole  .  His  position  as  envoy  for  the  Emerald
Ministry puts him into regular contact with the Kuei-jin
and even the Kin-jin of San Francisco and Los Angeles.
Image: Fei Chian looks like an earnest young man in
his mid-twenties, with short hair and a serious, sometimes
sour, look on his face — particularly when dealing with
Westerners.  He  often  wears  para-military  style  fatigues
(without any insignia) to remind himself of his position. He
rarely  travels  unarmed  and  usually  carries  a  pistol  in  a
shoulder holster beneath his jacket. He’ s polite and deferent
to his superiors and stern but fair with those under him, but
cold and disdainful to anyone he considers unworthy.

Roleplaying Notes: You shamed yourself in life and
brought about your current state, but the Second Breath
offers you another chance to redeem yourself. Through
right action, you can master the Demon within you and
purify your soul. Even if you remain forever damned, you
can still choose the right course and keep the world from
the  greedy  Yama  Kings.  You  sometimes  take  personal
responsibility for everything, even those things outside
your duties. You admire Maximum Sun greatly and would
do anything for him, including sacrificing your own honor
to  protect  and  preserve  his.  You  only  recently  realized
this, and have since begun to  consider ways to help your
Mandarin  regain  his  dignity  and  position  of  strength.
Perhaps the Kin-jin’s corrupt sorcerers have the answers…
if you can capture one unnoticed.
Nature: Martyr
P’o Nature: Slave
Demeanor: Director
Balance: Yang

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

Thaumaturgy. She proved a promising student, so much
so Thrace was careful not to teach her too much.

Wan Zhu hated her sire,  but had little choice but to
act as his agent in Hong Kong, learning all that she could
about the Kuei-jin and their activities. She was actually a
very effective actress and discovered abilities she never
knew she possessed. Were it not for her enforced servitude,
she might have come to enjoy her new existence. Freedom
and revenge were ever Wan Zhu’s companions, though.
Zhu convinced herself she needed to go behind Thrace’ s
back and study his occult tomes and grimoires. She told
herself that knowing more would make her more useful to
him, but deep down Wan Zhu knew she wanted more
power, enough power to break his hold over her soul.

Thrace vanished one night when the war for Hong
Kong  shifted  in  the  Kuei-jin’s  favor.  Wan  Zhu  didn’  t
question her good fortune. Instead, she took what grimoires
and tomes she could and used resources she knew Thrace
kept hidden, arranging her own escape to San Francisco.
There  she  disappeared  into  Chinatown.  With  nothing
more than patience, willpower and enforced separation
from her sire, she overcame Thrace’s blood bond. Finally,
she had her freedom.

Unfortunately,  the  conflict  in  Hong  Kong  quickly
followed Wan Zhu to San Francisco. When the Kuei-jin
invaded the city, Wan Zhu was trapped. She knew she
would not survive alone if either faction decided she was
a threat; she also  detested the Tremere and by extension,
all  Kin-jin.  Instead,  she  offered  her  aid  to  the  New
Promise Mandarinate, which was wise enough to realize

88

Direction: North
Dharma: Way of the Resplendent Crane 4
Attributes: Strength 3, Dexterity 3, Stamina 4, Charisma
3,  Manipulation  2,  Appearance  2,  Perception  3,
Intelligence 3, Wits 3
Abilities: Alertness 2, Athletics 3, Dodge 3, Empathy 2,
Intimidation 2, Leadership 2, Streetwise 1, Etiquette 1,
Firearms 4, Martial Arts 3, Melee 2, Security 2, Stealth 3,
Survival  1,  Investigation  2,  Linguistics  1,  Medicine  1,
Politics 1
Disciplines: Blood Shintai 3, Demon Shintai 2, Flame
Shintai 1, Yang Prana 2, Obligation 2
Backgrounds:  Allies  2,  Mentor  (Maximum  Sun)  3,
Resources 2
Yin: 3, Yang: 4, Hun: 4, P’o: 4, Willpower: 6
ALLIES
WAN ZHU

Background:  Wan  Zhu  fled  China’s  Cultural
Revolution,  knowing  there  would  be  no  place  for  an
intelligent, educated woman in the new People’s Republic.
Like many others, she sought refuge in Hong Kong, and
eventually  became  curator  of  Wanchai’s  Museum  of
Chinese Historical Relics.

Wan Zhu made the acquaintance of a silver-haired
English gentleman who visited the museum each evening
shortly  before  it  closed.  He  explained  that  he  was  a
collector and student of Chinese culture. Wan  Zhu found
his  knowledge  and  insight  impressive  for  a  Westerner.
She also found his attention and interest in her opinion
both  flattering  and  attractive.  Against  her  better
judgement,  she  spent  more  time  with    her  newfound
friend, even after the museum closed for the night. It was
a special part of an otherwise lonely life.

One night, Wan Zhu’s gentleman friend asked to see
her after-hours, claiming he possessed a new acquisition,
a rare jade artifact he wanted  her to authenticate before
donating it to the museum. Excited by the prospect of
such a find, Wan Zhu gave no thought to being in danger.
When he arrived, her friend Oliver Thrace r evealed his
true nature and Embraced Wan Zhu. He had been studying
her for some time, and she was just what he needed: an
intelligent  and  capable  Chinese  woman  to  act  as  his
agent. Thrace blood-bound Wan Zhu despite his clan’s
prohibitions to ensure her loyalty.

The following nights began Wan Zhu’s education in
obedience and humiliation under Oliver Thrace’s tutelage.
Although she felt betrayed and used by Thrace, the blood
bond  overwhelmed  her  hatred;  she  couldn’  t  help  but
accommodate  his  bidding.  She  learned  of  the  conflict
between the foreign Kindred and the Cathayans. Thrace
taught her enough to “pass”  as Kuei-jin for a short time,
allowing  her  to  spy  and  gather  information  on  the
mysterious Wan Kuei. He also taught Wan Zhu the arts of

CHAPTER FIVE: HONORED SHEN

her  true  value.  They  accepted  Wan  Zhu  despite    the
concerns of some traditionalists. She has since given the
Mandarinate valuable insights, and her mystic skills prove
quite useful. One of her most important contributions has
been in partially circumventing the Tremere wards.

Jiejie  Li  hasn’t  told  Wan  Zhu  that  Oliver  Thrace
betrayed  the  Kindred  and  is  under  her  protection.
Regardless,  Wan  Zhu  isn’t  stupid.    She  knows  about
Obliterate the Battlements because the Cloud Mandarins
wanted to know if she could cast it (she cannot). Wan Zhu
now wonders who possesses the acumen and ability to cast
a Tremere spell of that power, but Jiejie Li suspiciously
circumvents  her  questions.  Wan  Zhu  believes  Thrace
may be behind the ritual, but she has no idea how close her
sire and former master is to her, or that he looks forward
to binding her to his service again quite soon — a fate she
would consider worse than damnation itself.

Image: Wan Zhu is an elegant, mature woman whose
eyes  gleam  with  intelligence.  She  normally  dresses  in
fairly  traditional  Chinese  clothing  and  carries  herself
with an air of quiet dignity. She’ s learned to stay silent
most of the time, speaking only when she needs to but
listening carefully to everything going on around her. She
typically wears her long hair bound up. She can use her
sharp hairpins as weapons or tools in a pinch.

Roleplaying Notes: Once you were a slave, taken and
made into a monster by a man you liked. Now you trust no
one, and you will never be enslaved again. You hate what
you’ve become and you hate the creatures that made you.
The honor and civility of Kuei-jin society attracts you, and
allows you to overlook the fact they are as much monsters
as the Kindred they fight. You will make a place for yourself
within the New Promise Mandarinate and see some Kindred
burn along the way... if the Kuei-jin don’t betray you as well.
The ritual Obliterate the Battlements throws you for a loop,
however, because it reminds you of Thrace’ s handiwork.
You  wonder  what  became  of  your  sire  and  tormenter.
Although you would dearly love to see him burn to ash, you
also fear he would awaken the feelings of loyalty and desire
you hope remain buried forever.
Clan: Tremere
Sire: Oliver Thrace
Nature: Traditionalist
Demeanor: Conformist
Generation: 7th
Embrace: 1974
Apparent Age: Mid 30s
Attributes: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, Stamina 2, Charisma
3,  Manipulation  2,  Appearance  4,  Perception  3,
Intelligence 5, Wits 3
Abilities:  Alertness  3,  Brawl  1,  Dodge  2,  Empathy  3,
Leadership 1, Crafts (Brush-painting) 3, Drive 2, Etiquette
3,  Instruction  3,  Performance  (L  ectures)  2,  Repair  3,
Bureaucracy  2,  Computer  2,  History  (Chinese)  5,
Investigation  (Archeological)  4,  Linguistics  3,  Occult
(Chinese) 4, Science (archeology) 4

89

Disciplines:  Auspex  3,  Fortitude  2,  Presence  2,
Thaumaturgy 4 (Path of Blood)
Rituals: Communicate with Kindred Sire, Defense of the
Sacred Haven, Encrypt Missive, Expedient Paperwork,
Learning the Mind Enslumbered, Purge the Inner Demon,
Sanguineous  Phial,  the  Scribe,  Wake  with  Evening’  s
Freshness, Craft Bloodstone, Ward Versus Ghouls, Ward
Versus Cathayans, Bone of Lies, Scry
Backgrounds: Resources 2
Virtues: Conscience 4, Self-Control 4, Courage 3
Morality: Humanity 7
Willpower: 6
Notes: Thrace deliberately failed to teach Wan Zhu the
Dominate Discipline in order to limit her influence.

OTHER KUEI-JIN

Of  course,  the  Kuei-jin  are  by  no  means  the  only
Demon People in San Francisco. In fact, they’re relative
newcomers. There are Kuei-jin who have existed in San
Francisco  for  generations,  many  of  whom  resent  the
Quincunx’s  “protection.”  There  are  also  new  Kuei-jin
arrivals interested in the Great Leap Outward, although
their  agendas  and  those  of  the  August  Courts’  rarely
coincide. The Kindred only now understand (and barely)
that not all Cathayans follow the will of the Quincunx,
something the Western vampires may be able to turn to
their advantage.
THE GREEN COURTS

The vampires of Korea’s Green Courts take a keen
interest in the Great Leap Outward and the renewed vigor
infusing the Quincunx’ s August Courts. For centuries,
the Green Courts remained carefully nonpartisan in the
politics  of  the  Middle  Kingdom,  a  strategy  that  served
them well. Their neutrality made them the crossroads for
Kuei-jin  and  other  shen  avoiding  the  attention  of  the
Middle Kingdom’s more active powers. The Parallel Path
where Kuei-jin can find shelter netted the Courts much
jade and influence.

Now the creation of the New Promise Mandarinate
threatens  to  upset  the  Green  Courts’  long-standing
monopoly as a safe haven for those on the fringes of Kuei-
jin society. Many outcast or rogue vampires make their
way  to  Los  Angeles  and  San  Francisco,  either  to  lose
themselves among the press of the mortal herd or possibly
redeem  themselves  in  their  elders’  eyes.  Opportunities
exist in the West for those willing to seize them. This
decreases the number of Kuei-jin traveling the Parallel
Path  and  therefore  the  tribute  flowing  into  the  Green
Courts’  coffers. If the New Promise Mandarinate becomes
a true, stable court of the Quincunx, things can only grow
worse. The Green Courts’ mandarins and necromancers
have reasons to ensure it never does.

90
THE GREEN TIGERS

The Green Tigers are a wu of Kuei-jin from the Green
Courts. They are in North America gathering information
on  the  New  Promise  Mandarinate’s  activities  and
weakening  the  Mandarinate  when  possible.  If  the
Mandarinate succeeds, they will ensure the Green Courts
gain from the Quincunx’s crusade rather than losing the
influence granted by the Parallel Path. The wu is aggressive
— too  aggressive according to some within the Green
Courts, but they are successful thus far. The Mandarinate
is  not  aware  that  some  of  the  losses  sustained  by  the
Ocean-Crossing Warriors in Los Angeles were due to the
Green Tigers; the wu  now seeks similar opportunities in
San Francisco.

The Green Tigers’ tactics are simple. They carefully
conceal their presence, survey the local situation and pick
off stray Kuei-jin or Kin-jin whenever the chance arises.
Their  goal  is  to  encourage  conflict  and  keep  the  New
Promise Mandarinate from becoming a viable alternative
to the Parallel Path. The Tigers know they must not be
caught, and they will sacrifice their unlives if necessary to
protect the Green Courts.

For more information on the Green Tigers wu, see

Killing Streets, p. 73-76.
KIM JISUN

Devil-Tiger of the Green Tigers wu
Background: Like many of the Green Courts’ young
jina, Kim Jisun took the Second Breath about fifty years
ago, during the Korean War. Her husband and two sons
both died in the fighting and Jisun was left alone in a
refugee camp. She became a communist guerilla fighter,
where  her  capacity  for  ruthlessness  surprised  even  her.
Eventually  South  Korean  forces  captured  and  tortured
her for information about the communist underground.
In the end, after she broke down and told them everything
she knew, they lined her up with other prisoners against
a wall and executed her on a firing line.

For Kim Jisun, Hell came as little surprise, since she
embarked on its road long before her death; the way she
died, however,  was bitter. She held on to the desire to
avenge herself against her enemies and it sustained her.
She  freed  the  fierce  and  ruthless  side  of  herself  she’d
discovered, and even Yomi could not hold her for long.
Clawing  her  way  out  from  the  ditch  where  she’d  been
buried, Jisun took revenge on the soldiers whom she hated
more than anything in the world.

It wasn’t long before the Kuei-jin of the Green Courts
noticed Jisun’s presence and came for her. They offered
her the first shelter she’d known since her family died, and
they encouraged her ferocity. She chose the Howl of the
Devil  Tiger  as  her  Dharma.  Few  who  knew  her  in  life
would recognize Jisun in the fierce and determined warrior
she became after the Second Breath. The war ended, as
wars do, leaving the land and its people scarred; the Green

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

Courts went on, however, and Jisun dedicated herself to
protecting them.

Jisun learned the secret ways of the Parallel Path, and
how the arrogant Kuei-jin of other lands depended on the
Green Courts for subtlety and protection. It brought her
dead  heart  moments  of  grim  pleasure  watching  others
brought low, but also in helping them survive another
night.  She  helped  root  out akuma    and  dealt  with  any
threats to her home. In time, her wu, the Green Tigers,
became renowned for their combat skills as well as their
subtlety and stealth. Jisun quickly adapted what she had
learned as a guerilla fighter and adopted modern wisdom
from similar sources.

So it was that the Green Courts’ Ancestors chose the
Green Tigers to act on their behalf in North America.
Jisun accepted the assignment with relish. It would be a
pleasure turning the Quincunx’s arrogance against  them,
forcing them into a conflict they couldn’t win. In the end,
she would watch the stragglers and survivors turn to the
Green Courts for aid when they needed to disappear from
the world for a time. Let them pose all they wanted. The
Green Courts will have its desires.

Image: Jisun was always an average-looking woman,
even when young. Time  was not kind to her before the
Second  Breath.  Her  plain  features  have  a  hard  cast  to
them, and she only smiles at quick moments of macabre
joy. She wears her dark hair short, such that Jisun almost
looks like a man if  dressed appropriately. Her brown eyes
are  as  cold  as  stone.  She  normally  wears  whatever

91

HINO YORINAGA

Shining Ice Guardian, Daimyo of the Floating World uji
Background: Hino-sama lived in a Nippon clinging
desperately to a way of life fading under the demands of a
modern world. The opening of Nippon to the Western
world  and  the  dissolution  of  the  ancient  samurai  class
made his nation small in Hino’s eyes, less significant in
the grand scheme of things. He often wished he’ d been
born generations earlier, when training as a samurai truly
meant something. He found himself unable to keep pace
with  the  changing  world  around  him,  preferring  the
stories of the glorious past.

When the Emperor decreed that samurai could not
even carry their swords in public, Hino-sama retired to his
home, dressed in a white robe and prepared to commit
seppuku in protest. He wrote his death haiku and made all
the preparations, but when the time came he discovered
he couldn’t fulfill the deed. He shamed himself terribly
before his family and peers. After that, he sank into an
empty  existence,  drinking  heavily  and  living  off  what
little money he possessed, dreaming of days past. What he
could not do with a sword, Hino accomplished with a sake
cup.  He  died  choking  on  his  own  vomit,  and  Yomi
dragged down his dishonored soul.

At first, Hino accepted the devils’  lashes tearing his
flesh as just punishment for his dishonor. He suffered his
torment in stoic silence, knowing that the judgement of
Heaven was exact. He might be suffering in Yomi still if
he had not listened to the whispers and taunts of the devils
provoking him. They told Hino about the coming of the
Sixth Age, when the Demon Emperor would ascend to

CHAPTER FIVE: HONORED SHEN

functional clothing is appropriate to the situation, most
often favoring fatigues and sweats.

Ironically, Jisun’ s demon form is almost breathtakingly
beautiful, but also terrible and savage. She becomes taller,
more full-figured and athletic, with green skin as hard as
jade, pointed ears and long, luxurious hair that writhes
and grasps like tentacles. Her nails become iron claws and
her eyes burn with hellish fire.

Roleplaying  Notes: Life’s a bitch, so you’ d better
become one if you want to survive — and you will survive.
No matter what they throw at you, you’ll show them that
you’ re tougher. You hate Americans, Chinese, Japanese,
all of the various nations and peoples who treated yours
like pawns — or worse,  animals for the slaughter. You
derive pleasure from seeing the mighty and self-assured
whittled down to nothing, and you pride yourself on the
fact that few of them handle it as well as you have.
Nature: Survivor
P’o Nature: Demon
Demeanor: Masochist
Balance: Balanced
Direction: South
Dharma: Howl of the Devil Tiger 4
Attributes: Strength 3, Dexterity 4, Stamina 5, Charisma
3,  Manipulation  2,  Appearance  2,  Perception  3,
Intelligence 3, Wits 4
Abilities:  Alertness  3,  Athletics  2,  Brawl  3,  Dodge  3,
Intimidation 2, Leadership 2, Streetwise 3, Subterfuge (M
isdirection) 3, Firearms 4, Melee 3, Security 2, Stealth 4,
Survival 4, Torture 3, Linguistics 1, Medicine 1
Disciplines:  Black  Wind  3,  Demon  Shintai  3  (Claws,
Demon Armor, Tail)
Backgrounds:  Allies  2,  Contacts  2,  Horoscope  1,
Resources 2
Yin: 4, Yang: 4, Hun: 3, P’o: 5, Willpower: 7
GAKI

It is the gaki’s lot to forever be at the mercy of the
Quincunx,  or  so  it  seems  to  San  Francisco’s  Japanese
Kuei-jin.  From  their  point  of  view,  matters  progressed
well before the August Courts’  politics and factionalism
stumbled into their midst, scattering the skittish Kin-jin
like starlings. Now San Francisco is an armed camp and
the Ukiyo or “Floating World” uji’ s decades of slow and
steady progress have all but been washed away in a tide of
blood. Needless to say, the recent turn of events displeases
the gaki, but neither are they certain they can do much
about  it; at least not yet.

For  the  time  being,  the  Japanese  Kuei-jin  quietly
cooperate with the New Promise Mandarinate and keep
Japan Center clear of any visible infractions of the Cloud
Mandarins’  decrees. Out of sight, they meet secretly to
discuss the current situation, and even offer shelter to the
Kin-jin  who  need  shelter  from  the  Mandarinate’s
omnipresent eyes for a night or two.

92

the  throne  of  Heaven  and  the    world  would  fall  into
corruption; when the maws of Yomi would yawn wide into
the  world  of  the  living.  Although  he  believed  himself
unworthy, Hino-sama could not be such a coward that he
would  allow  the  world  to  fall  to  the  Yomi  Wan.  He
unleashed his righteous anger, broke the chains binding
him and escaped from Hell.

Returning to the flesh once clothing him was another
shameful experience for Hino-sama. He satisfied his hunger
on victims before the gaki captured him. Once he subdued
the Demon, Hino became an apt student of the Kuei-jin’
s ways. The Second Breath burned away his former apathy
and despair, and he devoted his unlife to making amends
for his failures; he devoted himself to righteousness and
the Way of the Resplendent Crane. He earned the praise
of his teachers and took his place in House Bishamon.
People  knew  him  as  a    conservative  traditionalist  and
capable, if somewhat hidebound, jina of his House.

The end of World War II changed Hino-sama’s views
as  dramatically  as  his  first  vision  of  the  Yomi  World.
When the bombs fell on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the
gates  of  Yomi  opened  wide  for  a  moment,  revealing  a
vision of Hell on Earth. In that second, Hino awakened
from  his  deathly  sleep  and  became  enlightened.  He
understood that the world he once knew was dead; clinging
to the past and its ways was what brought him to dishonor,
what dragged him down to Yomi, and what was keeping
him from progressing along his Dharmic path.

Hino-sama became one of the most reactionary voices
among the Bishamon, calling for a move into the modern
world  so  the  gaki  could  use  all  their  opportunities  to
greatest advantage. His pleas fell on deaf ears, however,
and his critics often used Hino’ s previous arguments for
tradition  against  him.  Frustrated,  he  turned  to  House
Genji, which reappeared after the war and embraced the
same progressive ideas. Hino left Nippon when some of
his former Bishamon superiors wanted to eliminate him.
He went to San Francisco with a few loyal followers where
he found a tiny, demoralized gaki community. Under his
guidance, they created the Ukiyo or “ Floating World” uji.
In  Hino’s  view,  America  defeated  Japan  because
Americans willingly embraced the future. Therefore, the
Ukiyo would learn to do the same.

The  gaki  made  some  inroads  with  San  Francisco’s
Kindred, establishing pacts of mutual non-aggression and
opening up the possibility of cooperation. The Japanese
Kuei-jin were still careful to maintain their independence
from the rule of the Camarilla Prince, while agreeing to
follow the Masquerade. All of that collapsed, however,
when the Quincunx invaded San Francisco and declared
it part of the New Promise Mandarinate. Still, the daimyo
of the Floating World refuses to give up, even with signs
of the Sixth Age upon him.

Image:  Hino-sama  is  a  straight-backed  dignified
Japanese man with a noble bearing. Grey streaks his hair,
and he still wears it drawn back in a short queue at the
nape of his neck. Normally, he wears  modern and fairly

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

formal (dark suits and the like) clothing, though he still
prefers a comfortable pair of hakama and a kimono when at
leisure  (which  is  increasingly  rare  these  days).  Hino
speaks perfectly fluent English (as well as Spanish, Korean
and Cantonese) in a deep and soothing voice that crackles
with authority. The daimyo rarely ever wears his samurai
swords, which he still keeps in his home. The local gaki
know it is a sign of trouble whenever Hino-sama appears
anywhere armed. In these dangerous times, at least two
gaki bodyguards accompany the daimyo everywhere.

Roleplaying Notes: You have much to atone for, and
you  have  learned  that  inaction  is  not  an  appropriate
response to your troubles. You went to Hell and returned
to keep the rest of the world from suffering your fate. At
first  you  thought  it  was  through  a  strict  adherence  to
traditional ways, but you gained some wisdom over the
years and now understand the old ways must change and
morality must fit the modern world’ s needs. Those who
fight  change  are  as  unyielding  as  stone  and  you  must
eventually wear them away. Those who become part of
change are as soft as water and flow with it. You are like
water:  yielding  and  adaptable,  but  capable  of  wearing
away any resistance given time and patience. So it will be
with the Quincunx and the Cloud Mandarins. You only
hope you still have the time to accomplish what you need
in ousting them before they invite the Sixth Age in upon
the robes of  ignorance.
Nature: Architect
P’o Nature: Fool
Demeanor: Pedagogue
Balance: Balanced
Direction: North
Dharma: Way of the Resplendent Crane 6
Attributes: Strength 3, Dexterity 3, Stamina 4, Charisma
4,  Manipulation  3,  Appearance  2,  Perception  4,
Intelligence 3, Wits 3
Abilities: Alertness 3, Athletics 2, Dodge 2, Empathy 2,
Intimidation  3,  Leadership  3,  Subterfuge  1,  Etiquette  3,
Martial Arts 3, Melee 4, Stealth 1, Academics 3, Computer
1, Finance 2, Investigation 3, Law 1, Linguistics 3, Politics 3
Disciplines: Black Wind 3, Blood Shintai 3, Equilibrium
3, Internalize 4, Obligation 4
Backgrounds: Allies 3, Contacts 3, Horoscope 3, Resources 3
Yin: 5, Yang: 5, Hun: 6, P’o: 4, Willpower: 8
SAKURAI MITSUMUNE

Wise Centipede shugenja
Background: Sakurai Mitsumune was too young to
fight  in  World  War  II,  but  he  recalls  the  war  well;
particularly Japan’ s defeat when the atomic bombs fell.
His  father  died  during  the  war,  leaving  13-year  old
Mitsumune  to  care  for  his  mother  and  two  younger
siblings. When a man came to their house and offered him
work, Mitsumune knew he was with the Yakuza but he
didn’t much care. He took the job and joined the local
Yakuza gumi. The black market boomed and there was

CHAPTER FIVE: HONORED SHEN

plenty of money to be made. Not only that, but the Yakuza
considered  Mitsumune  a  man,  not  a  boy,  which  also
meant he was a fair target in the eyes of competing gangs.
A rival gangster knifed Mitsumune, leaving him to
bleed out his life in a filthy tenement. His mother reported
him  missing  and  the  police  searched,  not    knowing
Mitsumune was already dead. His soul was in the depths
of  Yomi,  wandering  the  streets  of  the  Wicked  City.
Driven by the need to return to his family and avenge
himself on his killer, Mitsumune found his way out of Hell
while fending off the servants of the Yama King Mikaboshi.
He took the Second Breath just as police were ready to
give up the search; his first business was to feed on his
killer.  The  chih-mei  returned  home,    and  Mitsumune
wrestled  with  his  Demon  while  watching  his  family’s
shadows  move  through  the  house  from  the  cover  of
darkness. He won and  convinced his mother and siblings
he had been held captive, and that the police could not
learn “the truth.”

Mitsumune hid his condition from his family, but he
could not hide it from the stranger  who met him as he left
home  one  night.  She  explained  Mitsumune  had  risen
from the dead to atone for his past mistakes, and offered
to  teach  him.  He  accepted  and  learned  to  follow  the
Flame  of  the  Rising  Phoenix.  His  teacher  encouraged
Mitsumune  to  leave  the  Yakuza,  but  he  had  no  other
means of supporting his family and little education. He
continued with the gumi, though he did his best to take his
teacher’s lessons to heart.

Mitsumune’s Demon made him a force to be reckoned
with,  and  word  of  this  fierce  young  Yakuza  spread.  A
kobun named Orano approached Mitsumune and revealed
that he too was like Mitsumune  and his teacher Michiko.
He, however, was not bound to his old human life. In fact,
his identity as Orano and a kobun was just a disguise for the
powerful Kuei-jin beneath. He told Mitsumune that his

93

sensei’s  teachings were flawed; the path she showed him
could only lead to ruin, but neither would Orano interfere
nor even tell other vampires about Mitsumune since they
would surely destroy him. He told the boy to come  see him
if he wanted to learn.

Growing increasingly frustrated with his teacher’s demands
about  leaving  the  Yakuza  and  her  insistence  for  duty  and
obligation, Mitsumune was drawn to this new sensei. He went
to him infrequently at first, but then more and more often.
From Orano he learned detachment: the need to leave his old
life behind, to experience what the world could offer him so he
could learn its lessons. Under Orano’ s guidance, he destroyed
Michiko, his old teacher. Then he returned home and broke
his remaining ties by killing his family. He set fire to the house
and left without turning back.

Since  then,  Mitsumune  has  been  a  gangster,  a
schoolboy, a thief, a prostitute, a small-time Japanese pop
star and many other things. Along the way he studied
Kuei-jin occult lore and focused on an understanding of
Chi and the power of the Dragon Lines, hoping to discover
a means of purging the poison from the Dragon Nests of
Nippon. When his mentor Orano broke their ties and
moved  on,  Mitsumune  did  the  same  and  went  to  San
Francisco to study the Dragon Nests there, where hes has
since impressed Lord Hino with his knowlege.

Mitsumune advises Lord Hino on mystical matters
while maintaining several guises in the city that he uses to
observe and gather information. He is most concerned
with the poisoning of the Dragon Nest in  Bayview, and
hopes to study the problem more closely.

Image:  Sakurai  Mitsumune  looks  like  a  tall,  thin
Japanese teenager, around 15 or 16 years old. He has short
black hair, which he wears in any number of styles to suit
his  current  guise.  He’s  a  virtual  chameleon,  changing
mannerisms as easily as he does outfits to look like a hip
American high-school student, a visiting Japanese tourist
or a go-go boy in the Castro. He sometimes dresses as a
woman and can carry  it off quite well. With his rituals
(like Wear the Lesser Mask, see Dharma Book: Thousand
Whispers, p. 56), he can appear as virtually anyone. On
the occasions when he’s unmasked, like at Lord Hino’ s
court, he favors a plain kimono or jeans and a tight-fitting
t-shirt, all in white.

Roleplaying Notes: You wear a thousand different
masks, but within you are as still and calm as the void. You
can  be  wantonly  flirtatious,  wryly  charming,  cuttingly
sarcastic, diplomatic…  whatever the situation calls for.
Your only goal is balance and detachment, which currently
manifests in your desire to understand the feng shui  of San
Francisco and use it to help restore the balance to this
embattled city. You admire and respect Lord Hino, but
find  the  Quincunx’s  Kuei-jin  shortsighted  and  foolish.
The Kin-jin intrigue you, though they too are blind. You
find your unpredictability puts most hidebound Kuei-jin
off balance, and you like it that way.
Nature: Pedagogue

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

them when the time comes to deal with the arrogant New
Promise Mandarinate. There are even whispers that the
Honorable Grandmother comes hunting for akuma , or
that she left the home islands became of rumors intoning
she was in league with the Yama Kings.

Since her arrival, Grandmother Mushin grants few
audiences.  She  speaks  with  Lord  Hino  and  Sakurai
Mitsumune  on  occasion.  Most  recently,  she  met  with
Cloud Mandarin Lili Zhou (p. 82), who heard rumors of
the  Ancestor’  s  presence  in  the  city.  The  two  met  for
nearly an entire night, with Madame Zhou leaving shortly
before sunrise. What passed between them, no one knows,
but some point out that Lili Zhou seems to have redoubled
her efforts to become San Francisco’ s Ancestor.

Image: Grandmother Mushin is a hideous ch’ing shih,
an old and withered hag. Her flesh is gray and tight against
her bones while her eyes are like bottomless black pools
sunken into her face. She wears a glossy black wig to cover
the remaining wisps of brittle white hair on her head and
dresses in fine traditional Japanese kimonos. When dealing
with  other  shen  ,  the  Honored  Grandmother  wears  a
porcelain mask showing the smooth, impassive face of a
beautiful woman (legend claims the mask was modeled
after  Mushin’  s  when  she  was  alive  and  young).  The
Honored  Grandmother  moves  with  slow,  deliberate
motions,  and  speaks  in  a  soft  voice.  Although  she
apparently understands many languages, she only speaks
Japanese, calling upon an interpreter when dealing with
someone who doesn’t understand her.

Roleplaying Notes: Grandmother Mushin is a mystery
the Storyteller can use however desired. She rarely sees
anyone and speaks in riddles and koans when she does.
Portray her as mysterious and frightening. Nearly everyone
defers to her, and she usually gets her way. An audience
with  the  Honorable  Grandmother  can  serve  as  a  story
hook or provide characters with some useful clues about

94

P’o Nature: Deceiver
Demeanor: Loner
Balance: Balanced
Direction: Center
Dharma: Path of a Thousand Whispers 4
Attributes: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, Stamina 3, Charisma
2,  Manipulation  4,  Appearance  4,  Perception  3,
Intelligence 3, Wits 4
Abilities: Alertness 3, Athletics 1, Dodge 2, Empathy 3,
Intimidation  2,  Streetwise  3,  Subterfuge  3,  Crafts
(Sculpting)  2,  Etiquette  1,  Firearms  2,  Martial  Arts  2,
Melee 2, Performance 3, Portents 3, Stealth 3, Academics
2,  Enigmas  3,  Investigation  3,  Linguistics  2,  Occult  3,
Politics 1, Rituals 4
Disciplines: Demon Shintai 2 (Demon Armor, Demon
Weapon),  Equilibrium  2,  Feng  Shui  2,  Jade  Shintai  2,
Tapestry 4
Rituals:  Assume  the  Greater  Mask,  Wear  the  Lesser
Mask, Ritual of a Thousand Cuts, Ashes of the Phoenix,
The  Gentle  Repose,  Center  the  Demon,  the  Earth’s
Embrace (see Dharma Book: Thousand Whispers , p.
55-59  for  details  of  these  rituals),  Trace  the  Dragon’s
Blood, Behold the Spirit’s Doorway, Imbuing the Jade,
Rite  of  Supplication,  Harmonious  Shielding  of  the
Guarded Home.
Backgrounds: Contacts 4, Horoscope 2, Jade Talisman 3,
Resources 2, Rituals 4
Yin: 4, Yang: 4, Hun: 3, P’o: 3, Willpower: 7
GRANDMOTHER MUSHIN
Bone Flower Ancestor
Background:  Rumors  surround  Grandmother
Mushin’s sudden appearance, but no one knows why a
Song of the Shadow Ancestor now makes her home in
San Francisco’s Japan Center —  or at least if anyone does,
they haven’t said. Mushin, the Honorable Grandmother,
merely arrived one night several years ago at Lord Hino’s
door with only a tiny handful of retainers to carry her
palanquin. The  daimyo of the Floating World hosted the
Honorable Grandmother and granted her request for a
place to dwell within his small domain. Since then she
has kept largely to herself, only occasionally accepting
audiences and leaving the Wan Kuei of San Francisco and
Nippon to gossip about her presence.

The  gaki  know  that  the  Honorable  Grandmother
Mushin took the Second Breath well over three hundred
years ago, and that she spent nearly all of those years in
Nippon until recently. Everything else is only rumor and
speculation, though there is no lack of it. Stories claim
Grandmother was a beautiful woman once, that she is a
fearsome sorceress, that she actually traveled widely borne
by  ghosts  of  the  Yin  World,  and  that  she  studied  the
ancient  arts  of  necromancy.  Some  believe  her  arrival
involves the turbulent storm that wracks the Yin World.
Others think she intends to keep watch over local gaki ,
either to keep them in line for the Quincunx or to advise

95

winds  of  Yomi    as  his  screams  were  torn  away  by  the
howling demons. He remembers the struggle to escape
their tearing claws and red-hot brands as though  it lasted
a century. Perhaps it did. He knows only he did escape,
returning to the Middle Kingdom deep in the heart of
China  and  rising  to  wear  a  corpse  not  his  own.  He
remembers the terrible hunger that drove him to attack a
girl who wandered too far from her village, to devour her
flesh and flee from the villagers’ searching lights.

Yulan-Tao remembers existing like a beast, with no
concerns save for hiding from the light and satisfying the
gnawing, endless hunger. Finally, others found him and
bound him. They took him and forced the Demon back,
so  that  Yulan-Tao  emerged  once  more…  except  he
possessed no name then, none at all. He took the name
Tao when his training was complete and he stepped onto
the  Path    of  a  Thousand  Whispers.  He  would  wear  a
thousand masks, starting with that of the corpse he wore.
Already his true face was lost to him; when he asked his
sifu if he should mourn that loss, his teacher said, “ did your
mother mourn you before you were born?”

Tao  stalked  the  Middle  Kingdom,  wearing  many
different masks. He spent some time at the Jade Court,
studying with the masters there, filling the void in his
mind  with  knowledge  and  understanding  of  his  new
existence. For him, the Second Breath was his first. He
knew no existence other than the one he had. It was as if
he had never beheld the sun before, so he did not miss the
Eye of Heaven. He was curious about it, even rightfully
feared it, but it was fear of something strange and terrible
he had never  known before. Some said Tao’s forgetfulness
was a blessing, while others thought it inauspicious. Tao
said only time would tell — and it did.

After nearly a mortal lifetime, Tao wore a mask that
entangled him in the violence of the Boxer Rebellion. He
became careless and his corpse paid the price. He fell to the
colonial soldiers’  guns and, in that instant, his soul was torn

CHAPTER FIVE: HONORED SHEN

chronicle events. It might also cast suspicion on characters,
whether they’re actually guilty of anything or not.
Nature: Director
P’o Nature: Legalist
Demeanor: Loner
Balance: Yin
Direction: West
Dharma: Song of the Shadow 7
Attributes: Strength 4, Dexterity 4, Stamina 5, Charisma
3,  Manipulation  6,  Appearance  2,  Perception  6,
Intelligence 5, Wits 5
Abilities:  Alertness  4,  Intimidation  4,  Leadership  1,
Subterfuge  4,  Enigmas  4,  Etiquette  4,  Martial  Arts  3,
Portents 4, Stealth 4, Survival 2, Academics 4, Investigation
3, Linguistics 4, Occult 5, Politics 4, Rituals 5
Disciplines: Black Wind 3, Blood Shintai 2, Bone Shintai
5, Cultivation 4, Ghost-Flame Shintai 3, Tapestry 5, Yin
Prana 5
Rituals: Any the Storyteller feels necessary.
Backgrounds: Allies 3, Influence 3, Resources 4, Retainers 4
Yin: 7, Yang: 4, Hun: 4, P’o: 5, Willpower: 8
KÀNBUJIÀN

A great concern to the New Promise Mandarinate
and the other San Francisco Kuei-jin is the number of
kànbujiàn in the city. San Francisco’s Chinatown is one of
the few settlements outside  the Middle Kingdom large
enough and with enough connections to the spirit worlds
to allow Kuei-jin to arise. Over the past few centuries, the
August  Courts  largely  ignored kànbujiàn,  though  a  few
dedicated wu  traveled to distant lands in search of them,
giving them proper instructions and a place within Kuei-
jin society. Some wu also destroyed this lot as chih-mei ; a
similar injunction meted out by Kindred, shapeshifters,
other shen or by the Kuei-jin themselves, who saw little
hope for these kànbujiàn. Only a few overcame their inner
Demon alone and achieved even the slightest awareness
of enlightenment.

One  of  the  New  Promise  Mandarinate’s  purposes,
according to the Quincunx, is providing for the Kuei-jin
arising in foreign lands since the number of kànbujiàn  in
San Francisco increased since their arrival. The mandarins
and ancestors believe this an auspicious sign, though no
one bothers asking the kànbujiàn what they think about it.
There remain some among the “blind” kànbujiàn who can
see what is happening quite clearly, and they’ re not very
happy about it, whether it is their treatment at the hands
of the Mandarinate or their suspected role as omens of the
impending Sixth Age.
YULAN-TAO

Yulan-jin Rootless Tree and Guide of the Blind
Background: Yulan-Tao has no memory of life, only
of death, burning pain and his own screams. He remembers
the pain stretching on forever, his soul flayed by the razor

96

from the body it wore, the corpse collapsing into dust. He
was borne on the hellish winds of Yomi and screamed in
terror of his first memories, of his “first death.”

Yulan-Tao fought his way free of Hell again, and arose in
a corpse of another stranger. This time he was a woman in
Korea. Tao met Kuei-jin from the Green Courts, and eventually
discovered he was Yulan-jin, a spirit-jumper and wandering
soul who found no rest, even in unlife. He carefully concealed
his true nature and doggedly continued pursuing his Dharma,
but fell victim to conflict once more when war broke out in
Korea. While escaping the bombing of a village, Tao stepped
on a landmine. Yomi beckoned again.

Three more times Tao fought his way free of Hell.
Three  more  times  he  rose  up  in  a  new  corpse  like  a
discarded suit of clothes. The most recent time proved the
most shocking of all. Just over ten years ago, immediately
following the 1989 earthquake in San Francisco, Yulan-
Tao found himself in the body of a Westerner, a young
man named Tim O’Connell.

Tao  quickly  adapted  and  blended  into  the  city’s
anarch underground, accepted as just another Caitiff. In
time, Yulan-Tao believed Heaven ordained his coming to
San Francisco, because it allowed him to understand his
unliving existence from a completely different angle. The
moment of enlightenment opened his eyes, and he felt the
weight of so many years of struggle drop away.  Here was
a new mask, a new role that truly affirmed his Way.

Since then, Yulan-Tao maintains Tim O’Connell’s
identity  as  a  Kindred  anarch  as  his  primary  mask,
occasionally  adopting  other  identities  as  needed.  He
came into contact with Billy Wei a few years  after arriving
in the city and supported the cause of the largely forgotten
kànbujiàn of San Francisco. Yulan-Tao revealed his true
nature to Wei and  serves as something of a teacher and
guide for the Heaven Promise Society, though he does so
on his own terms.

The Kuei-jin invasion and the so-called New Promise
Mandarinate deeply concern Tao. He sees the Quincunx
blundering into a situation it knows nothing about, full of
bluster  and  self-importance.  He’  s  afraid  that  if  they
discover him, they will brand him a heretic (or worse,
akuma) and deliver him unto the Final Death, the most
absolute of fates. He has some sympathy for the Kin-jin,
having existed among them, but he’s not yet willing to
help  the  Camarilla  against  the  Kuei-jin.  He  continues
working with the Heaven Promise Society while hoping
another solution will present itself.

Image: Tim O’Connell was a handsome, college-age
man,  with  short,  sandy-colored  hair  and  a  gold  loop
earring in his right ear. Tim’s eyes were blue, but Yulan-
Tao’s eyes are a vivid jade green (as they have been with
every body he occupies). He dresses in simple, serviceable
clothes; usually jeans, combat boots, a t-shirt and a leather
jacket.  His  guileless  face  actually  conceals  a  being  of
considerable  cunning:  Yulan-Tao  has  become  a
consummate actor, able to play vampire anarch, drunken

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

frat-boy, street con, brilliant student and more at the drop
of a hat.

Roleplaying Notes: You are not what you seem, and
that is your greatest strength. To most, you are all but
invisible, beneath their notice. As long as you remain that
way, you are safe, but it is not your nature to hide when
there are experiences to embrace. Once you cursed your
existence as a wandering spirit, but now you seize it as your
path to enlightenment. You have learned  much about
Western society and the Kindred since your arrival in San
Francisco, and you wish there were a way to share your
experiences with Kuei-jin. You fear, perhaps rightfully so,
that they are too prejudiced and set in their ways to listen.
If you could somehow help the New Promise Mandarinate
live up to its ideals, as a true alliance between Kuei-jin and
Kindred, however, you would.
Nature: Rebel
P’o Nature: Monkey
Demeanor: Loner
Balance: Balanced
Direction: Center
Dharma: Path of a Thousand Whispers 4
Attributes: Strength 3, Dexterity 5, Stamina 4, Charisma
4,  Manipulation  4,  Appearance  3,  Perception  3,
Intelligence 2, Wits 4
Abilities: Alertness 3, Athletics 2, Dodge 3, Empathy 4,
Expression 2, Intimidation 2, Streetwise 3, Subterfuge 3,
Drive 1, Etiquette 2, Firearms 2, Marital Arts 3, Meditation
3,  Melee  2,  Performance  5,  Stealth  3,  Survival  3,
Academics 2, Computer 1, Investigation 3, Linguistics 3,
Occult 1, Rituals 2
Disciplines: Black Wind 3, Equilibrium 3, Internalize 2,
Jade Shintai 3, Tapestry 2
Backgrounds: Contacts 3, Resources 2
Rituals: Trace the Dragon’s Blood, Behold the Spirit’s
Doorway, Way of the Lone Walker, Embrace the Spirit’s
Change, Harmonious Shielding of the Guarded Home
Yin: 3, Yang: 3, Hun: 4, P’o: 4, Willpower: 5
THE HEAVEN PROMISE SOCIETY

Most of San Francisco’s vampires are so concerned
about  their  own  agendas  that  they  never  really  pay
attention to other players on the board, especially one
beneath the notice of both  the Camarilla and the New
Promise  Mandarinate.  How  long  that  lasts,  however,
remains to be seen. The Heaven Promise Society is a loose
alliance of vampires, mostly kànbujiàn  and a few Kindred,
struggling  to  maintain  their  humanity  in  the  face  of
everything  unfolding  around  them.  They  seek  an
understanding of their unlives based on a combination of
Eastern and Western philosophy. While purists on either
side  would  find  it  blasphemous,  it  creates  a  degree  of
understanding between Kuei-jin and Kindred for perhaps
the first time anywhere.
WILLIAM “BILLY” WEI

CHAPTER FIVE: HONORED SHEN

Kànbujiàn leader of the Heaven Promise Society
Background: Ever feel like you paid full price for the
last ten minutes of the movie? That pretty much sums up
Billy  Wei’s  entrance  into  San  Francisco’s  nights.  Billy
lived his entire life, all twenty-odd summers of it, in the
Bay Area. He went to Berkeley and earned a degree in
Creative Writing; he became a full-time freelance writer,
achieving some measure of success while publishing his
first novel, titled  Life on the Golden Mountain. The novel
was a major success, hitting the New York Times bestseller
list  and  allowing  Billy  an  apartment  not  far  from
Chinatown with the royalties and the option for a film.
Unfortunately, success didn’t sit well with Billy Wei.
He hit a creative slump working on ideas for his next book,
feeling the pressure to match his first success. He looked
for  “inspiration”    at  the  bottom  of  a  shot  glass  or  in
handfuls of pills, and he walked the streets late at night in
that oh-so-typical writer’s malaise. He grew increasingly
depressed,  alienating  friends  with  his  attitude  and
temperamental outbursts. Eventually, while out late one
night  at  a  club  in  SoMa,  Billy  met  up  with  an  anarch
passing through San Francisco after barely escaping Los
Angeles. The hungry vampire drank Billy  Wei dry and
left him dying in an alley.

Billy  Wei  didn’t  realize  his  respect  for  his  cultural
heritage  had  deeper  implications.  Yomi  drew  his  soul
down, where he ran through the streets of the Wicked
City, devils at his heels. He tried denying any of it was real
at first, but the pain that Yomi’s denizens inflicted and felt
was all too lucid. Overcome with all that he’d lost, Billy
fought back and out of the Wicked City, finding his way
back  into  his  body.  To  him  it  seemed  like  weeks  had
passed, but he took the Second Breath in the alley the
same night. Billy Wei’s first victim was another late-night
club-goer who satisfied the burning hunger within him.

97

The shock of that terrible act, so similar to his own
death, brought Billy into direct confrontation with his P’ o
soul. He overcame the Demon by sheer will and fled back
home to his apartment. He slept through the day and rose
again at night, hoping it had all been a horrible nightmare
but realizing it was all true. That night he wrote again, and
he alternated his nights between writing and exploring his
newfound nature. He hunted to slake his thirst for Chi,
though he was careful not to kill anyone or be seen. Still, it
didn’t take long for word of his attacks to circulate.

Fortunately  for  Billy,  events  in  San  Francisco
snowballed fast and  neither the Camarilla nor the New
Promise Mandarinate had much time to investigate what
might be a single rogue vampire. Instead, Billy received a
visit from Yulan-Tao, a Yulan-jin dwelling in San Francisco
for some years. They talked for some time; Billy learned
what  he  was  and  about  vampire  society.  He  quickly
decided he wanted nothing to do with either faction and
he wanted to offer others that alternative as well.

Together, Yulan-Tao and he conceived of the Heaven
Promise Society, a kind of “support group”  for vampires,
both Kuei-jin and Kindred. Here they can offer each other
mutual aid and avoid the political entanglements of the
various sects. Thus far, it attracts only a few kànbujiàn and
Caitiff  vampires  and  remains  small  enough  that  San
Francisco’s  nocturnal  powers  overlook  it.  The  only
outsiders really aware of the society are the dragon wizard
Li T’ien (who silently approves) and Chan Te, the akuma
master of the Hollow City wu who would like to recruit
Heaven Promise’s vampires.

Still, it’s likely only a matter of time before the New
Promise  Mandarinate  or  the  Camarilla  discovers  the
group’s existence, at which point they’ ll likely try and
turn it into a tool for their own purposes. Their first big
clue is likely to be Billy Wei’s new novel, Heaven’s Promise
Forsaken, based on his experiences and marketed as fiction
but  containing some telling information about both the
Kuei-jin  and  the  Kindred.  Mortals  will  dismiss  it  as
somewhat lurid horror fiction, while vampires  will either
perceive a threat to their secrecy or a potential guru for
those seeking enlightenment. The view that eventually
predominates may determine Billy Wei’s fate.

Image: Wei is a Chinese-American of average height
and build, with a broad moon face and an easy smile when
he’ s in a good mood. He cuts his dark hair short and wears
narrow glasses with black plastic frames. He prefers dressing
for comfort in chinos or cargo pants with polo shirts or
sweatshirts, and he usually carries a cell phone. He also
purchased a gun for protection shortly after encountering
Yulan-Tao, though he doesn’t carry it unless he’s expecting
trouble (he usually keeps it in his bedside table at home).
Roleplaying  Notes:  While  you  can’t  say  you  like
being a vampire, it opens your eyes and forces you to see
the world in a whole different way. This has its benefits.
You’ re more than a little freaked by it all sometimes, but
you give it a lot of thought. If you have eternity, you’d
rather dedicate yourself to improving the lot of people like

98

you (and, yes, you still consider yourself a  “person” and
not  some  “thing”).  Vampires  can  exist  without  killing
people and without involving themselves in every little
power-struggle. You just hope they’ll leave you alone to
pursue your work.
Nature: Visionary
P’o Nature: Bandit
Demeanor: Loner
Balance: Balanced
Direction: East
Dharma: Way of Hun (see p. 131)
Attributes: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, Stamina 3, Charisma
4,  Manipulation  3,  Appearance  3,  Perception  4,
Intelligence 3, Wits 4
Abilities:  Alertness  2,  Athletics  2,  Brawl  2,  Dodge  2,
Empathy  3,  Expression  (Writing  )  4,  Leadership  1,
Streetwise 1, Subterfuge 1, Drive 1, Etiquette 1, Firearms
1,  Stealth  2,  Academics  2,  Computer  1,  Linguistics  1,
Politics 1
Disciplines: Black Wind 1, Equilibrium 2, Jade Shintai 1
Backgrounds: Allies 1, Contacts 2, Fame 1, Resources 4
Yin: 3, Yang: 3, Hun: 4, P’o: 3, Willpower: 8

AKUMA: THE HOLLOW CITY WU

Accusations of collaboration with the Yama Kings
grow increasingly frequent and strident throughout the
August Courts. The ancestors see akuma in every heretical
new idea and rebellious Running Monkey or wu , though
in truth the accusations are a useful political weapon. It is
false more often than not, which is just what the Yama
Kings and their servants want. Let the Wan Kuei fight
amongst themselves while the akuma  slide through the
shadows and do their masters’ bidding.

Kuei-jin pledged to the service of Hell and its rulers
are all too real, and closer at hand than San Francisco’s
mandarins and elders know. The primary group of local
akuma is the Hollow City wu, led by a kànbujiàn who has
escaped notice for over a century. He carefully gathers and
guides  other  Kuei-jin  at  the  command  of  his  master,
Mikaboshi, Lord of the Wicked City. Now the akuma feel
the approach of the Sixth Age; they look up into the night
sky at the Eye of the Demon Emperor, and know that their
time is at hand.
CHAN TE

Warlord of Mikaboshi, Master of the Hollow City wu
Background: In the mid-18th century, the first ship
of Chinese immigrants set sail to San Francisco, leaving
behind a China torn by Opium Wars and conflict with
European colonialists searching a new and better place to
live. Those immigrants did not leave behind the spirit
world of the Middle Kingdom, however, and they struggled
with hunger, thirst and disease to reach their new golden
land.

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

Chan Te was among those who succumbed to illness
on the trip across the Pacific. He was nobody, a peasant
and smuggler with dreams and hopes of something better.
Before he even began, however, his life was cut short and
his soul sent screaming into Yomi. What had he done to
deserve such a fate? How could Heaven be so cruel and
unjust? Chan Te was not afraid to question, but for the
first time ever he questioned the very meaning of creation.
He  would  not  meekly  submit  to  his  fate.  He  gave  his
Demon free rein and escaped his imprisonment, fighting
his way from Yomi Wan and returning to the flesh that
failed him.

When the ship reached California, the men aboard
told stories of a flesh-eating ghost stalking the decks, but
people dismissed them as tall tales. Chan Te vanished
among the immigrants, promising his existence in this
new land would be different. His old life was truly over.
The sudden and rapid growth of San Francisco caught
the eye of Mikaboshi, Yama King of the Wicked City.
Never  before  had  a  city  surged  so  quickly,  the  people
swarming  across  the  land  like  maggots  over  a  piece  of
rotten  meat.  Mikaboshi  tasted  the  area’s  rich  Chi  and
knew that  here was something of interest to him. He also
discovered  one  of  the  Wan  Kuei  in  this  newborn
monstrosity  of  a  city,  one  who  only  recently  took  the
Second Breath and remained untouched by the Middle
Kingdom’s guidance. Mikaboshi moved to make this new
vampire his own.

It  was  not  difficult.  Chan  Te  was  alone  and  knew
nothing of his true nature save for folk tales he learned at
his grandfather’s knee. When the stranger with the metal
hands approached and offered to teach him about himself,
Te  agreed. So began the lessons that made Chan Te an
instrument of the Yama King. The agreement was mutual.
Chan  Te  wanted  power  and  Mikaboshi  offered  it  in
exchange for favors to be negotiated later. Chan Te gave
little thought to events that would arrive more than a
century later.

Te learned his lessons well, becoming a true master of
the Demon Arts and a useful servant of the Lord of the
Wicked  City.  Under  Mikaboshi’s  guidance,  Chan  Te
helped  keep  the  Kindred  out  of  Chinatown  since  its
establishment. He helped thin the ranks of chih-mei when
they appeared among the populace, sometimes choosing
one  as  a  disciple  and  creating  his  own  Corpse  Family
under the guidance of his master.

The Hollow City wu has been the secret rot eating at
San Francisco’s soul since  its earliest days. They have
been  present  while  the  city  struggled  through  growth,
earthquake, fire, rebuilding and more, patiently watching
and  waiting.  Chan  Te  anticipates  the  day  when  the
Wicked  City  manifests  itself  in  San  Francisco’  s  fog-
shrouded streets. Then he will hunt Kuei-jin and Kindred
alike, and Mikaboshi will raise him up as the ruler of a
piece of Hell on Earth.

CHAPTER FIVE: HONORED SHEN

Image: Chan Te would hardly draw a second glance on
the streets of his home city, which is just as he and his
master  prefer  it.  He’  s  a  Chinese  man  of  slightly  below
average height, usually dressed in an immaculate dark suit.
He is completely bald and he wears dark designer sunglasses
to cover his eyes when he’ s outside. He has a small, neat
beard and moustache. With his gold and jade bracelet, cell
phone and polished leather shoes, Chan Te looks like a
well-to-do businessman. When he uses his Chi’ iu Muh art,
a great blazing eye opens in the center of his forehead.

On other occasions, Chan Te assumes his demon form,
towering nearly 12 feet tall with four arms, three eyes and
red skin. His beard becomes elongated and forked, while his
voice is the boom of thunder.  He wields a terrible curved
sword blazing with hellish fire in one hand. Mortals who see
him in this form flee in mindless terror, always forgetting
what they saw afterward. Chan Te’ s demon form haunts
the nightmares of many people in Chinatown, and will
soon do the same with the shen of San Francisco.

Roleplaying  Notes: Once, you were nothing. Fate
dealt you a cruel hand, but you seized Fate by the throat
and used the bitch for your pleasure. You fought your way
out of Hell and made yourself strong, strong enough to
attract  the  notice  of  Lord  Mikaboshi.  Now  you  are  a
mighty warlord in service to a powerful Yama King, a force
to  be reckoned with. You bided your time and prepared,
and now you are eager to show the arrogant vampires that
slink in the shadows of “your”  city what you can do. They
will bow down and call Mikaboshi their master, or else you
will send them to meet him in Hell, screaming.
Nature: Visionary
P’o Nature: Demon
Demeanor: Judge
Chi Balance: Balanced
Direction: Center
Dharma: Akuma 6

99

Attributes: Strength 4, Dexterity 4, Stamina 5, Charisma
3,  Manipulation  5,  Appearance  3,  Perception  3,
Intelligence 3, Wits 4
Abilities:  Alertness 3, Athletics 3, Dodge 4, Empathy 2,
Intimidation 4, Leadership 3, Streetwise 5, Subterfuge 4,
Torture 4, Drive 2, Firearms 3, Martial Arts 4, Melee 4,
Stealth 5, Finance 2, Investigation 3, Linguistics 2, Occult
3, Rituals 3
Disciplines: Black Wind 4, Chi’iu Muh 5, Demon Shintai
5  (Demon  Weapon,  Extra  Arms,  Horror,  Huge  Size,
Third Eye), Hellweaving 5, Jade Shintai 3
Rituals: Trace the Dragon’s Blood, Behold the Spirits’
Doorway, Imbuing the Jade, Cloak the Dragon’s Presence,
Rite  of  Supplication,  Harmonious  Shielding  of  the
Guarded  Home,  Construct  the  Dragon  Bone  Prison,
Ritual of the Black Peony (see The Thousand Hells, p.
104), Inauspicious Object, Bakemono Rite (see Dharma
Book: Devil-Tigers , p. 54).
Backgrounds: Allies 2, Contacts 3, Resources 3
Yin: 4, Yang: 5, Hun: 4, P’o: 6, Willpower: 8
JOHNNY MA

Akuma of Mikaboshi
Background:  When  he  was  a  boy  growing  up  in
Chinatown of the ‘50s, Johnny Ma hated being Chinese.
He hated going to American school during the day and
Chinese school at night. He hated being different from
the other kids. More than anything, he wanted to be a
“real American,” like the guys in the movies he loved to
watch... real tough guys like John Wayne and James Dean.
Unfortunately, Johnny’s idea of acting tough involved
joining a gang that went against the  Chinatown Tongs.
Instead of being the tough guy, Johnny ended up coughing
out  blood  in  an  alley  before  expiring  from  a  couple
gunshots to the belly. If he thought he hated his Chinese
heritage before, it was nothing compared to what he felt
on the twisting streets of the Wicked City, where Yomi
demons  tortured  and  tormented  him  for  his  cowardice
and fear. Finally, Johnny’s mind snapped. He fought back
and his savage P’ o clawed its way up from the depths of
Hell and back into his body. He would show them, he
would show them all he wasn’t afraid.

Johnny fed well that night and on those that followed.
Eventually  he  struggled  against  his  Demon,  regaining
some sense of self. He wasn’t a coward and he wasn’t a
failure. He was powerful, and anyone who wanted to screw
with  him  now  had  better  watch  out.  Johnny  quickly
realized someone was following him; he tried laying an
ambush for whoever stalked him, but he never stood a
chance. Chan Te was ready for him, though he admired
the  youngster’s  audacity.  The  fire  burning  in  Johnny’s
belly  reminded  Chan  Te  of  his  own  first  nights  after
taking the Second Breath.

After Chan Te slapped him down, Johnny became his
student and disciple. The elder akuma knew exactly which
strings to pull, and he didn’t have to tug hard. “ So there are

100

courts of old Chinese vampires playing at being mandarins
and courtiers,” Chan told Johnny, “why the fuck would you
want to hook up with them?” “There are secret clubs of
gweilo  Yankee vampires who would never let a Chinaman
among them. Screw ‘em.” Johnny had enough of people
trying to teach him “proper” behavior to last him his entire
existence. He wanted to be powerful like Chan Te. If that
cost  him  his  soul,  so  what?  He  eagerly  embraced  the
Downward Path and pledged himself to Mikaboshi.

Image: Johnny looks and dresses like a refugee from a
‘50s  or  ‘60s  street-gang.  He  usually  wears  his  black  hair
slicked back and dons dark sunglasses, along with faded
blue jeans, a t-shirt, a leather jacket and motorcycle boots.
He  carries  a  pistol  in  a  shoulder  holster  underneath  his
jacket and he’s good at finding weapons of opportunity. He’
s particularly fond of pool cues, broken pieces of crates and
other makeshift stakes to impale and immobilize vampires.
Roleplaying Notes:  Chan Te is the Man, and anybody
who says otherwise will answer to you. Truth is, Mikaboshi
and his fellow Yama Kings scare the crap out of you, but
they also reward loyalty. You admire Chan and you obey
him to the word. Everyone else, from the Kin-jin to the
Kuei-jin  to  the  mortal  herds,  is    a  joke  to  you.  The
vampires hide and spent their time playing games, while
mortals are just toys and food. You look forward to when
the whole damn world goes down in flames and you watch
it all from the owner’s  box. If Mikaboshi decides Chan is
too old and he wants new blood, well, you don’t have a
problem with promotion, either, so long as you don’t have
to risk your own neck to earn it.
Nature: Conformist
P’o Nature: Slave
Demeanor: Bravo
Chi Balance: Balanced
Direction: South
Dharma: Akuma 4

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

Attributes: Strength 4, Dexterity 4, Stamina 4, Charisma
3,  Manipulation  2,  Appearance  3,  Perception  3,
Intelligence 2, Wits 3
Abilities:  Alertness  2,  Athletics  3,  Brawl  3,  Dodge  3,
Intimidation  (Bluster)  3,  Streetwise  3,  Subterfuge  1,
Torture  3,  Drive  (Motorcycles)  3,  Firearms  3,  Martial
Arts 2, Melee 3, Stealth 2, Investigation 2, Linguistics 1
Disciplines:  Black  Wind  3,  Demon  Shintai  2,  Ghost-
Flame Shintai 2, Hellweaving 2, Yang Prana 2
Backgrounds: Allies 2, Contacts 1, Mentor (Chan Te) 3,
Resources 2
Yin: 3, Yang: 4, Hun: 2, P’o: 4, Willpower: 7
TJUN TJUN AFIFF

Penangallan akuma of Mikaboshi
Background: Tjun Tjun Afiff grew up despondently
poor in Jakarta. Her family sold her to a prostitution house
at the age of 12. The brothel  was a Scarlet Screen for the
Golden Courts, used to gather Chi and flesh to satiate the
hunger of the penangallan and their cohorts, so  Tjun Tjun
was introduced to Kuei-jin society at an early age while
she still breathed. She did what she could to survive day
after day, nurturing a hatred for men that blossomed into
loathing for everyone around her. She used her sexuality
as the only weapon and coin she possessed, but eventually
her luck ran out.

A  violent  john  butchered  Tjun  Tjun  and  left  her
mutilated body lying in an alley. The police tagged her as
another random violent death while  her soul, leaden with
searing rage, sank into the depths of Yomi Wan. She did
not  abide  there  long.  Tjun  Tjun  rode  her  Demon  to
freedom, savagely tearing through anything in her way,
including the Wall between worlds. She pulled her corpse
together by no more than force of will, clawing out of her
grave  and  slaking  her  need  for  flesh  and  Chi  on  some
unfortunate passers-by —  more random deaths for the
police blotter.

It didn’t take long for the Golden Courts’ Kuei-jin to
track down the new chih-mei, though subduing her proved
more  difficult.  The  penangallan    were  torn  between
destroying Tjun Tjun and preserving this awesome and
savage creature. They chose the latter and  taught her
what she needed to know. It came as no surprise that she
chose the Howl of the Devil-Tiger as her Dharma, or that
she devoted herself to the arts of Flesh Shintai. She even
returned to her life as a whore, but now her customers
became the prey.

Tjun  Tjun  reveled  in  her  newfound  power  and
regularly grew drunk on Yang chi, disdaining the cold,
metallic taste of Yin. Her fury and hatred did not abate —
they  only burned hotter with each passing night. Several
times, her elders warned her about her excesses. Although
they admired Tjun Tjun’ s grace and power, her restraint
left something to be desired, even in the Golden Courts.
Finally, she argued with a wu sister and, in a fit of fire soul,
devoured her chi. When she realized what she had done,
Tjun Tjun knew a long and painful Final Death awaited

CHAPTER FIVE: HONORED SHEN

her at the hands of the penangallan. She fled Jakarta and
sought shelter, which she found among a band of akuma
in  service  to  Rangda,  the  Queen  of  Pestilence.  Once
again, Tjun Tjun did what she had to do to survive and
pledged herself to the Yama Queen.

Tjun Tjun served well for many years, until a vengeful
penangallan wiped out her sisters. Tjun Tjun fled again, this
time to Hong Kong, where Rangda traded the akuma’ s soul
to Mikaboshi, Lord of the Wicked City. He groomed the
penangallan akuma in his service before sending her to San
Francisco to join the ranks of the Hollow City wu . Tjun
Tjun discovered she liked the new city and the opportunities
it presented; she also realized her own wicked spirit was well
suited to Mikaboshi’s Hell and goals.

Image:  Tjun  Tjun  Afiff  is  an  attractive  Indonesian
woman in her late teens or early 20s, with a curvaceous,
athletic body, small breasts, deeply tanned skin and luxurious
black hair that falls to the small of  her back. Her skin is
smooth and hot to the touch. Her eyes are black as night
and smolder with lust, and she usually wears something
skin-tight  in  the  latest  fetish  styles  popular  in  the  San
Francisco nightclubs: leather, rubber or latex body-paint,
accented  with  chrome  jewelry  and  body-piercings.  Her
teeth are especially white, like bleached bones.

Roleplaying Notes: There is no one in the world you
can depend on or trust, which is fine by you, since you have
all  you  need  to  survive.  You  know  how  to  twist  the
emotions of mortals and even shen . Everyone else is just a
plaything  to  you,  a  toy  with  which  you  amuse  yourself
before discarding it when it becomes troublesome or boring.
Shame  and  restraint  are  qualities  you  left  behind  even
before taking the Second Breath. Now you exist solely for
pleasure, which you derive from inflicting pain. The Wicked
City is your hunting ground and you lust for the day when
you can hunt unfettered by any need for stealth.
Nature: Deviant

101

P’o Nature: Deceiver
Demeanor: Celebrant
Balance: Yang
Direction: East
Dharma: Akuma 4
Attributes: Strength 3, Dexterity 3, Stamina 4, Charisma
3,  Manipulation  4,  Appearance  4,  Perception  2,
Intelligence 3, Wits 3
Abilities:  Alertness  2,  Athletics  (Dance)  3,  Dodge  3,
Empathy 3, Expression 2, Intimidation 2, Streetwise 3,
Subterfuge 3, Torture 2, Etiquette 2, Firearms 2, Martial
Arts 3, Melee 2, Performance 3, Stealth 3, Linguistics 1,
Medicine 1
Disciplines: Black Wind 3, Flesh Shintai 3, Jade Shintai
4, Yang Prana 3
Backgrounds: Allies 2, Contacts 3, Mentor (Chan Te) 3,
Resources 3
Yin: 3, Yang: 6, Hun: 2, P’o: 5, Willpower: 6
PETER KWAN

Ventrue antitribu and akuma of Mikaboshi
Background: Top of his high school class, business
degree  from  UCLA,  hot  prospects  in  Silicon  Valley…
Peter  Kwan’s  future  looked  very  bright  indeed.  In  the
early ‘90s, he  found a job advising computer geeks how to
run businesses, earning himself a nice condo in the Bay
Area and living the high life. With money and success
came a chance to enjoy the best clubs and restaurants, and
all the pleasures that a city like San Francisco offered.
Peter worked as hard as he played.

Eventually, Peter received a job offer he just couldn’t
turn  down.  The  salary  and  benefits  were  amazing,  but
what was even more impressive was his new boss. Jochen
Van Nuys was the kind of man Peter wanted to be from
the moment he set eyes on him. He was smooth and in
control of everything around him. Peter found himself
saying yes to the offer even before thinking about it. The
job  was  all  he  could  have  hoped:  serious  high-level
corporate money management of the type Peter expected
the Security Exchange Commission would love to know
about.  It  also  meant  invitations  to  the  best  parties  in
town, where Peter uncovered more about his employer.
By the time Peter knew the truth, he was already blood-
bound to Van Nuys. Not long after that, he was a loyal
ghoul, handling his regnant’s business affairs by day and
helping the Ventrue gain control of certain key interests in
the city. What he didn’t know, at first, was that everything
Van  Nuys  was  doing  didn’t  necessarily  meet  with  the
approval of San Francisco’s Prince Thomas, but that wasn’
t something he needed to know. Within a year, Van Nuys
was most impressed with Peter’s work and offered him a
promotion. Peter knew what he wanted and Van Nuys gave
it to him. In his Embrace, Peter joined the Kindred.

It wasn’t long before Jochen Van Nuys was Prince of
San Francisco and Peter Kwan was a rising young star in
the  new  prince’s  entourage.  He  adapted  to  unlife  well

102

enough  and  found  pleasures  and  challenges  aplenty  to
keep him entertained. In fact, he enjoyed a few too many
pleasures. Peter’s work slipped and his sire was not pleased,
but he always managed to make up for it and stay ahead of
the  game.  The  future  still  looked  promising  for  Peter
Kwan, until the arrival of the Cathayans.

Rumors concerning the Asian vampires circulated for
months before word of their intentions came from Hong
Kong and Los Angeles. Anarch survivors of the LA purge
made their way into San Francisco. As a precaution, Van
Nuys  entrusted  Peter    with  going  into  Chinatown  to
“assess  the  situation.”  Peter  went  reluctantly,  but  he
found Kuei-jin — or more precisely, they found him. The
Hollow  City  wu    encountered  Peter  Kwan  before  any
other  Kuei-jin  had  found  him.  Chan  Te  showed
exceptional mercy in not destroying the Kin-jin on the
spot. No, the time was coming when he would need to
strengthen his wu’ s ranks, and he saw the same potential
others did in the young Kwan.

Months  of  torture,  manipulation  and  spiritual
“adjustment” bent Peter Kwan to Chan Te’s purpose. The
young Ventrue increasingly felt disdain and even hatred
for his sire and former mentor. In the end, he  accepted
Mikaboshi as his lord and master and pledged himself to
the cause of the Hollow City wu . Then he was ready to
return to his sire, with a tale of Kuei-jin scouts holding
him hostage and torturing him for information. Van Nuys
had by then lost his position as prince and become a New
Promise  Mandarinate  minister.  In  need  of  allies,  Van
Nuys happily accepted his pupil back into the fold.

Now Peter Kwan plays a dangerous game, gathering
information for Chan Te and playing the Kindred and
Kuei-jin  against  each  other.  Currently  no  one  in  the
Mandarinate knows of the viper Van Nuys has clasped to
his bosom, and Kwan intends it should remain so until it
is too late.

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

Image: Peter Kwan is a fairly handsome Asian man
with an expensive haircut and even more expensive taste
in clothes. He still looks the part of a hip, successful young
businessman, and he carries all the expected accouterment
with him: cell phone, PDA, Rolex, etc. He defers to his
superiors but otherwise takes charge in any situation in
which he’s involved.

Roleplaying Notes: Chan Te and Lord Mikaboshi
opened  your  eyes  to  the  reality  most  Kindred  don’t
understand. You have seen the Wicked City’s streets and
know it as your home. When the time comes, you’ ll stand
inside one of its towers and survey those parts you rule in
Mikaboshi’s  name.  Those  wise  enough  to  see  the
inevitability of the Yama Kings’ victory may be fortunate
enough to serve you. Those who aren’ t will suffer for their
short sightedness. You are poised to carry out your master’s
will. No one suspects you, nor will they so long as you
don’t give them a reason.
Clan: Ventrue
Sire: Jochen Van Nuys
Nature: Fanatic
Demeanor: Director
Generation: 10th
Embrace: 1996
Apparent Age: Mid 20s
Attributes: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, Stamina 3, Charisma
4,  Manipulation  3,  Appearance  3,  Perception  3,
Intelligence 4, Wits 4
Abilities: Alertness 2, Athletics 2, Brawl 1, Dodge 2, Empathy
3, Intimidation 2, Leadership 2, Streetwise 1, Subterfuge 4,
Drive 2, Etiquette 3, Firearms 2, Performance 3, Security 2,
Stealth 2, Academics 2, Computer 1, Finance 3, Investigation
3, Linguistics 1, Politics 1
Disciplines: Auspex 2, Celerity 1, Dominate 2, Fortitude
2, Presence 2
Backgrounds: Allies (Hollow City) 2, Contacts 2, Mentor
(Van Nuys) 3, Resources 3
Virtues: Conscience 2, Self-Control 3, Courage 3
Morality: Humanity 3
Willpower: 5
CAMARILLA

The Camarilla is an organization at war, and their
battleground is San Francisco. One by one, the sect has
been ferrying in heavy hitters to retake the city. At the
very least, this should create a kind of power inflation that
will offer the Inner Circle some insight into the Cathayans’
methods, habits and capacities. If it also forces the invaders
out, so much the better.

Perhaps more impressive is the degree to which the
clans work together. Even the crusade against the Sabbat
has not, thus far, spurred this degree of active cooperation.
There is little doubt, however, that this sense of solidarity
stems from the various clans vying for the choice plum of
San Francisco on the Pacific Coast’ s orchard. Participating

CHAPTER FIVE: HONORED SHEN

in the process now can only solidify their hand in what
was once the Ventrue’s “old boys club.”

The  Ventrue  currently  handle  the  administrative
issues. The Inner Circle tapped some very old and very
powerful  generals  to  advise  and  direct  the  campaign
against  the  Cathayans.  The  Blue  Bloods  assume
responsibility for marshaling the so-called infantry clans
(typically the Brujah, Nosferatu and sometimes Gangrel)
into cohesive units. The Tremere, meanwhile, guide the
Camarilla’ s intelligence and psychological operations.

San  Francisco  has  traditionally  been  a  bastion  of
Ventrue and Toreador influence, though many Toreador
left  the  city  in  recent  years,  following  the  Bohemian
crowd  that  was  priced  out  of  the  city  by  the  dot.com
influx. Another recent  phenomenon impacting vampiric
demographics is the flow of anarch refugees and repentant
former  anarchs,  which  bolstered  the  local  Brujah  and
Gangrel population.

While the domain of San Francisco proper has all but
fallen to the Kuei-jin, the Camarilla as a whole is still
relatively strong in the region. The Ventrue retain control
of San Jose to the south (and they believe they know what’
s needed to repel Cathayans from their handling of the
small influx of Vietnamese Kuei-jin in the 70s), while
across the bay, Oakland is under the firm control of the
Brujah and Nosferatu.

Oakland and San Jose are becoming the Camarilla’s
staging areas for its war on the Kuei-jin while the Inner
Circle decreed Sacramento the fallback staging area should
the entire Bay Area somehow fall to the Quincunx.
PRINCE SARA ANNE WINDER

Background: Sara Anne Winder was the firstborn of
English nobleman Roger Winder, and she came of age in
an era when such distinctions meant worlds of difference.
Her  touch-eccentric  father  insisted    she  be  educated
exactly as a young man would be. Her intellect shined like
a beacon, and she possessed a hungry mind. Contemporary
society considered it extremely unladylike behavior for a
young woman to attend a university, but, by colluding
with her father and masquerading as a young man, she
graduated from Oxford with honors.

When Oxford’s regents discovered they had given an
advanced degree to a woman, they promptly revoked it
and accused her of base dishonesty, conveniently ignoring
the fact they wouldn’t accept her otherwise.

Winder, wealthy enough to play a lady of leisure, didn’t
need the degree but was  angry nonetheless. She associated
with  those  on  the  fringes  of  English  society:  authors,
playwrights  and  actors.  She  took  up  with  a  long-term
female companion and scoffed at those who accused them
of “ an unusual and remarkable fondness for one another.”
She had an almost magical talent for extracting what she
wanted from others, and rarely refrained from using her gift.
By  so  doing,  Sara  Winder  created  something  of  a  cult
around  herself.  The  nobility,  while  scandalized  by  her
behavior, respected both her family and her obvious genius.

103

Charlotte Ingraham groomed Winder for immortality
two years before she gave the young woman the Embrace.
The first year she carefully introducing Winder to elements
of what she referred to as “The Society of Night.”  The
second year she ghouled Winder, and, just as the young
woman’s “radical stance” elicited serious repercussions in
the mortal world (thanks to the efforts of a scandalized
Anglican bishop), Ingraham gave Winder the Embrace
and spirited her away to Italy.

Winder remained in touch with her family through
correspondence  until  their  deaths.  She  told  them  the
political and moral atmosphere of England was repugnant
to her and she would not let it bring her down (or them by
association with  her).

With her old, breathing life in the background, Winder
set her sights on a whole new realm ripe for charming: that
of the Kindred. With the guidance and instruction of her
Sire,  Winder  became  a  strong  proponent  of  Camarilla
ideals. Wit h time those ideals, backed by her formidable
intellect,  earned  her  increasing  respect  among  the
Camarilla’s Kindred.

The  most  valuable  chip  in  Winder’s  portfolio,
however, was her recent performance in the war to retake
New York City. As one of the strategists behind the New
York reconquista, Winder’ s star rose in Camarilla circles.
Too high, perhaps, for her own good. Certain old-guard
Kindred  still  worried  about  her  ambitions  and  cocky
manner, and they nudged the Inner Circle to grant her
fondest  wish:  princehood  of  a  major  city  —    once  she
retakes it from the invading Cathayans. If she fails, they’ll
have the satisfaction of seeing an upstart eliminated from
a position of power. If she wins… well, so much the better
for the Camarilla.

Truthfully, in Sara Anne Winder’s mind, the city is
already hers. With the information recently provided by
the  Tremere  and  the  fealty  of  the  Nosferatu  Kokopell
Mana, she estimates the Cathayan influence over the city
could be significantly weakened within the space of two
weeks  and  their  presence  eradicated  entirely  within  a
month, given the competent execution of a simple mass-
Embrace campaign. For the moment, however, she waits
for word from those  higher up along the chain of command.
A mass-Embrace is not something to be pursued lightly.
Such tactics always lead to breaches of the Masquerade
and  always smack of a Sabbat stench. The tolerances for
such things relax slightly during wartime, though, and as
soon as Winder receives word, she intends to make the
Cathayans suffer for every Kindred death and indignity
suffered during their occupation. Then, she will truly be
Prince of San Francisco. The knot in her plans, however,
is that while the Camarilla knows the Cathayans do not
Embrace through blood, their method of induction remains
a mystery. Until they uncover the Kuei-jin’s secrets, the
Inner Circle will not commit to the endeavor blindly.

Image: Prince Winder is as cute as a button. She pulls
her long blonde hair back in a ponytail and her eyes, blue as

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

KELVIN WEE, CAMARILLA NEGOTIATOR

Background: When Hong Kong reverted to Chinese
control and the Kuei-jin hunted Asian  Kindred, Kelvin
Wee  fled  to  America  in  the  hold  of  a  cargo  ship.  He
resided in Seattle until his Prince informed him of the
situation unfolding in San Francisco and strongly urged
him to render service.

When Wee first arrived, he tried offering his services
to  then-Prince  Van  Nuys.  Unfortunately,  Van  Nuys’
“negotiations”    were  nothing  short  of  the  slow  and
methodical capitulation of San Francisco to the Kuei-jin
who bluffed their way into power.

After  Sara  Winder  assumed  the  Princedom,  Wee
took an immediate liking to her and she to him. Neither
had any intention of handing San Francisco to a bunch of
pompous  outlanders.  Since  that  time,  Wee  operates
secretly on Winder’s behalf with the Mandarinate as well
as acting as the Camarilla’s negotiator with the Kuei-jin
(though  he  knows  nothing  of  the  Cloud  Mandarins’
threats,  which  they  voiced  only  through  Van  Nuys).
When Winder fails to make any headway thanks to Van
Nuys, she relies on Wee as an alternative route. Wee, in
turn, presents her ideas as his own to avoid any stigmas
associated with her name.

Image: Kelvin is an amazingly large Chinese man. He
stands just over six feet tall and, while he’s not fat, he is
without a doubt a man of substance. He dresses in tailored
suits and fine apparel, understanding how the Kuei-jin place
great emphasis on physical appearance and public face.

Roleplaying Notes: You are either a con artist posing
as a negotiator or a negotiator posing as a con artist. Either
way, you make deals that always work best in your favor
and the Camarilla’ s. At the moment you try to help pull
the  city  back  from  the  brink  of  Kuei-jin  control,  one
gracious  smile  at  a  time.  Your  fluency  in  Chinese  and
knowledge  of  Chinese  business  customs  helps  you

104

ice caves,  sparkle when she smiles. She dresses casually, but
makes a point of wearing clothes that accent her lithe build.
Roleplaying Notes: You are a battle-hardened general
in the guise of a sweet and flirtatious young lady. In public
settings, you comport yourself in such a way that  others
cannot even imagine you behaving in a cruel or aggressive
fashion. You are a smiling and gracious prince, and deal
pleasantly even with those individuals you despise. Likewise,
you can enthrall a target and engage him in witty banter
even while your assassin moves into place behind him. You
are not malicious, nor above even the most extreme and
perfidious tactics if it will win you a battle.
Clan: Ventrue
Sire: Charlotte Ingraham
Nature: Architect
Demeanor: Traditionalist
Generation: 8th
Embrace: 1688 CE
Apparent Age: Early to mid 20s
Attributes: Strength 3, Dexterity 4, Stamina 4, Charisma
4,  Manipulation  5,  Appearance  4,  Perception  5,
Intelligence 5, Wits 4
Abilities:  Alertness  3,  Athletics  3,  Brawl  1,  Dodge  4,
Empathy 2, Intimidation 3, Leadership 5, Streetwise 2,
Subterfuge 4, Drive 2, Etiquette 4, Stealth 2, Academics
4, Computer 1, Finance 4, Law 4, Linguistics 4, Politics 5
Disciplines: Auspex 2, Celerity 4, Dominate 5, Fortitude
4, Potence 2, Presence 5
Backgrounds: Contacts 4, Herd 4, Resources 5, Status 5
Virtues: Conscience 2, Self-Control 5, Courage 4
Morality: Humanity 6
Willpower: 8

105

He suspected (correctly) that doing anything else would
result in reassignment to an even less desirable post.

For  the  moment,  Van  Nuys  plays  the  role  of
intermediary. With the Cloud Mandarins’ confidential
threats  to  destroy  local  Kindred  in  retribution  for  the
wards, Van Nuys tries to forestall what he believes is a
massacre.  Fortunately,  the  Cloud  Mandarins  seem
grudgingly  interested  in  a  peaceful  solution,  and  Van
Nuys relays that information to the Inner Circle (if only
to  appear  the  Camarilla’s  champion).  Meanwhile,  the
former prince thinks he’s earning the Mandarinate’s trust,
but he awaits the day when he once more rules a city. If
that rule is under the Quincunx, then so be it.

Image: Van Nuys is a vaguely handsome man with
straw blond hair, pale blue eyes and slightly pointy nose.
Unlike some Kindred, Van Nuys does not wear his undead
pallor well; it gives him a pasty, unhealthy appearance
that  mitigates  his  otherwise  overwhelming  charm.  He
dresses well, though a bit toward the foppish end of the
sartorial spectrum.

Roleplaying Notes: You must succeed regardless. The
last two years have seen some notable setbacks, but each
disappointment gives you a deeper understanding of the
system you’ re trying to manipulate. Now, finally, you can
redeem your record by dragging the Cloud Mandarins back
from a potentially catastrophic decision for all sides. It’ s
clear to you, however, that fighting the Kuei-jin is a losing
battle.  When  the  Camarilla’s  war  tactics  fail  and  Sara
Winder falls beneath the Mandarinate’s axe, you’ ll be the
nexus between the Camarilla and the Quincunx, and one
of the most politically powerful Kindred in North America.
Clan: Ventrue
Sire: Irving Boldger
Nature: Traditionalist
Demeanor: Judge
Generation: 9th

CHAPTER FIVE: HONORED SHEN

immensely  in this endeavor. They assigned you to the
Pacific  Heights  M-T  sector,  so  you’re  clearly  doing
something  right.  On  the  other  hand,  the  social
repercussions and allegations of collusion with the Kuei-
jin are a pain in the ass that you’ d just as soon avoid. If
that’s the worst your existence throws at you, however,
you’re in good shape.
Clan: Ventrue
Sire: Robert Pedder
Nature: Conformist
Demeanor: Traditionalist
Generation: 8th
Embrace: 1907
Apparent Age: Mid 30s
Attributes: Strength 3, Dexterity 2, Stamina 4, Charisma
4,  Manipulation  5,  Appearance  2,  Perception  2,
Intelligence 4, Wits 3
Abilities:  Alertness  2,  Empathy  3,  Intimidation  2,
Leadership 4, Streetwise 2, Subterfuge 4, Drive 2, Etiquette
5, Academics 2, Finance 3, Law 1, Linguistics 3 (English,
Mandarin, Szechwan, Japanese), Politics 3
Disciplines: Auspex 2, Dominate 1, Fortitude 5, Presence 4
Backgrounds: Allies 4, Contacts 5, Herd 3, Influence 1,
Resources 4, Retainers 4, Status 4
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 5, Courage 2
Morality: Humanity 7
Willpower: 7
JOCHEN VAN NUYS, MINISTER OF
THE OFFICE OF WESTERN AFFAIRS

Background: In 1994, Jochen Van Nuys arrived in San
Francisco from the East Coast. At the time, the Ventrue
touted him as something of a wunderkind. Two years later he
had taken the Princedom of San Francisco from the utterly
ineffectual Prince Vannevar Thomas, leading the Ventrue
to expect great things from his stewardship.

The Ventrue anticipated a turn-around of events for
4 years, but their hopes for “great things” never materialized.
On the contrary, four years into Van Nuys’  rule, Asian
vampires invaded the city, endangering Ventrue control
over one of the single most lucrative cities under Camarilla
control inNorth America. An unflattering report by the
visiting Toreador Justicar was the last straw.

In January 2001, Van Nuys received a letter from the
Inner Circle informing him his skills as a diplomat and
keeper of the peace dwarfed even his ability to rule as
Prince. The letter thanked him for his efforts on behalf of
the Ventrue and the Camarilla and informed him he had
been  selected  as  the  new  chief  liaison  between  the
Camarilla and the Quincunx. In the final paragraph, the
letter asked he arrange a cordial welcome for Sara Anne
Winder, San Francisco’s new Prince.

To  his  credit,  Van  Nuys  welcomed  Winder  with  a
warmth and hospitality rarely seen in the Kindred political
world, but his options by that point were admittedly limited.

106

Embrace: 1908
Apparent Age: Early 30s
Attributes: Strength 2, Dexterity 3, Stamina 4, Charisma
4,  Manipulation  4,  Appearance  3,  Perception  3,
Intelligence 4, Wits 2
Abilities: Alertness 2, Brawl 1, Diplomacy 2, Dodge 3, Empathy
1, Intimidation 1, Leadership 1, Streetwise 1, Subterfuge 3,
Drive 3, Etiquette 4, Security 2, Academics 4, Computer 2,
Finance 4, Investigation 1, Law 3, Linguistics 3, Politics 3
Disciplines: Auspex 3, Celerity 2, Dominate 4, Fortitude
3, Presence 4
Backgrounds: Contacts 3, Generation 4, Herd 4, Influence
2, Mentor 2, Resources 4, Retainers 3, Status 4
Virtues: Conscience 2, Self-Control 3, Courage 3
Morality: Humanity 6
Willpower: 5
MIRIAM CARAVAGGIO, PRINCE
WINDER’S BODYGUARD

Background: A dancer when dancing was scandalous
and  improper,  Miriam  Caravaggio  was  used  to  people
mistaking her for a prostitute. She was thus hesitant to follow
the    man  who  invited  her  to  his  hotel  after  one  of  her
performances. She intended to refuse in no uncertain terms,
but the moment she looked into his dark eyes, she said yes.
Miriam received the Embrace less than an hour later.
Solomon Greene, her sire, had seen some hint of genius in
her steps that he felt he needed to preserve; so he brought
Miriam into the world of the Kindred.

While initially content to be a thing of beauty and
refine  her  art,  the  Embrace  had  a  curious  impact  on
Miriam’s  artistic  sensibilities.  She  extended  her  once-
ecstatic love of dancing, now blunted by her blood thirst,
into more aggressive interests. Miriam became interested
in  the  similarities  between  dance  and  combat.  Dance,
gymnastics and martial arts were all techniques through

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

which the body became more amenable to the will, and,
consequently, more dangerous. In time, her ability to turn
murder into a beautiful dance form earned her some small
fame among Kindred. In fact, when Prince Winder was
offered either a Brujah or Assamite bodyguard, she chose
neither and asked Miriam to take that role.

Since beginning her service to Prince Winder, Miriam
already killed two Kuei-jin assassins in a heady rush of the
feral and martial dance of combat. She also developed a
taste  for  fighting  the    often  apt  and  graceful  Kuei-jin,
though  whether  or  not  her  lust  to  test  her  skills  will
endanger  Prince  Winder  remains  to  be  seen.  To  her
credit, Miriam is still a professional who can control her
desires… for now.

Image: An extraordinarily lithe and beautiful young
woman,  Miriam  dresses  to  accentuate  her  form  while
allowing  herself  complete  range  of  motion.  She  most
frequently wears a black body suit with a brightly colored
(and easily removable) sarong.

Roleplaying Notes: You aren’t like others. For you,
every  movement  is  a  dance,  every  interaction  a
performance. Your favorite dance is that of violence —
the  lunge  of  rage,  the  wheeling  slap,  the  graceful
evisceration.  Others  simply  don’t  understand  you,  and
that’s fine — one cannot expect the masses to understand
genius. You’d rather dance/fight than talk to them anyway.
Clan: Toreador
Sire: Solomon Greene
Nature: Celebrant
Demeanor: Thrill-Seeker
Generation: 10th
Embrace: 1890 CE
Apparent Age: Early 20s
Attributes: Strength 4, Dexterity 5, Stamina 4, Charisma
3,  Manipulation  2,  Appearance  5,  Perception  4,
Intelligence 2, Wits 3
Abilities:  Alertness  5,  Athletics  5,  Brawl  4,  Dodge  5,
Expression 1, Intimidation 2, Streetwise 1, Acrobatics 5,
Drive 4, Etiquette 1, Performance (Dance) 4, Security 1,
Stealth 3, Academics 2, Investigation 2, Politics 1
Disciplines: Auspex 4, Celerity 4, Fortitude 4, Potence 2,
Presence 2, Protean 2, Obfuscate 1
Backgrounds: Allies 2, Herd 3, Resources 2
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 2, Courage 4
Morality: Humanity 4
Willpower: 5
KOKOPELL MANA THE KACHINA,
NOSFERATU PRIMOGEN

Background: Memory, a trick of lights and smoke,
eludes Kokopell Mana. She remembers soldiers pulling
filthy  and  diseased  children  from  the  earth  hovels
screaming. She remembers screaming too, and awakening
to a searing pain like acid bile spilling into her blood. She
awoke to terrible night thunder, a deformed and decrepit

107

Nosferatu  controlling  the  great  underbelly  of  the  city,
they will drive this new threat back across the ocean.

Image: Kokopell Mana the kachina is a wizened old
woman of Hopi extraction who was Embraced as Nosferatu.
Nobody is sure of her age because of her clan deformations
and  the  muck  with  which  she  covers  herself,  but  she
appears and claims to be downright ancient. In fact, she
believes herself a fertility kachina of the same name. Kokopell
has a hunchback and uses “sewer muds” to paint her face.
She looks like a Hopi kachina  doll with wild straw-like hair
and  native  clothing.  Fortunately,  as  a  “spirit,”  she  uses
Obfuscate to travel unseen in the normal world.

Roleplaying Notes: Your people are gone from the
sacred mountains of San Francisco, perhaps left behind in
the Fourth World. So you await their return and  foster
alliances with the clans who claim birthrights from across
the eastern ocean.  This pantheon called the Camarilla
argues and bickers like a family, but they are still your
family, and you will not abide any betrayal to them. This
includes the Kuei-jin invasion. Still, the kachina  Winder
asked you to stave your fury for now, and you will respect
the wishes of this new Warrior Mother.
Clan: Nosferatu
Sire: Unknown
Nature: Visionary
Demeanor: Survivor
Generation: 7th
Embrace: Unknown but first appeared in 1911
Apparent Age: Indeterminate
Attributes: Strength 3, Dexterity 4, Stamina 6, Charisma
3,  Manipulation  3,  Appearance  0,  Perception  6,
Intelligence 4, Wits 5
Abilities:  Alertness  4,  Brawl  3,  Dodge  5,  Empathy  4,
Intimidation 3, Leadership 4, Streetwise 2, Subterfuge 4,
Animal Ken 5, Melee 2, Stealth 5, Survival 4, Linguistics
1, Occult 3

CHAPTER FIVE: HONORED SHEN

beast; upon seeing her horrible reflection she knew was
different. She bore a hunchback and two sharp front teeth
like an insect’s. She realized she must be Kokopell Mana,
the Humpback Locust Woman and kachina (spirit) of the
Hopi.  Everything  was  still  a  blur,  however.  Was  the
Spider Clan attacking the great city Palátkwapi again? If
so, where were the other kachina like the Warrior Mother
Héhewúti or Cha’kwaina? Why weren’ t they defending
the Bear and Corn Clans from the encroaching Spider
Clan?  Kokopell  did  not  know,  but  she  now  feared  the
sunlight and lived in perpetual night. Was she again in the
caves of the underworld, awaiting the emergence of a new
and Fifth World? How else to explain an existence where
only night comforted her?

Kokopell Mana wandered until she found a pohoki, a
prayer shrine in the desert; she waited there until Hopi
worshipers came to plant feathers for  prayer. Kokopell
Mana announced her presence with terrible glowing eyes
and  a  form  that  flitted  in  and  out  of  the  night.  She
demanded to know what had happened. Where were the
other kachina ? She remembered little of the Spider Clan’s
attack on Palátkwapi. Stunned, the Hopi explained that
their people had long left that city; the clans had spread
across North America, while the kachina  reverted back to
spirits after saving them and now resided in the mountains
of  San  Francisco.  Kokopell  Mana  thanked  them  and
blessed them for their kindness, then made her way for
San Francisco, and the other kachina.

Upon  arriving,  Kokopell  Mana  discovered  mortals
rebuilding a giant city at the feet of the kachina mountain
homes, like the great Ant People. She searched for her
kind,  but  found  none  of  the kachina    she  remembered.
Gone were the Spider, Bear, Coyote, Bow, Corn, Badger
and Butterfly Clans. In their place rested clans called the
Toreador, the Brujah and the Ventrue. In fact,  it was the
Nosferatu  Clan  who  welcomed  her  as  a  sister.  Their
kachinas  were also strange. They were white and yellow
and black. This did not disturb Kokopell Mana, however,
for the Corn people were custodians and guardians of a
legend that claimed people of four colors would come here
to live in peace and harmony. Like corn, they would be
black and white and yellow and red.

Kokopell  Mana  settled  in  the  mountains  of  San
Francisco,  among  the  new  clans  and  new kachina.  She
found their ways strange, but her clan of Nosferatu were
versed in the ways of  the Ant People and dwelled far
beneath  the  Earth  in  fashioned  caverns.  In  fact,  this
existence was growing comfortable until the kachina of
the yellow corn became evil and took the city just as the
Spider  Clan  had  done  in  Palátkwapi.  They  even
slaughtered brothers and sisters from her tribe. Kokopell
Mana  swore  from  then  on  that  she  would  not  allow
another home to fall to the evils of another. She united
with the Ventrue Clan and the powáqa , or sorcerers, of
the Tremere Clan to fight the Kuei-jin kachina. Kokopell
Mana  found  strong  allies  in  the  kachina    Winder  and
Demain. She is now mother to her clan, and with the

108

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

Disciplines: Animalism 4, Auspex 3, Celerity 1, Fortitude
2, Obfuscate 6, Potence 5
Backgrounds: Allies 2, Herd 5, Influence 4
Virtues: Conscience 4, Self-Control 4, Courage 4
Morality: Humanity 8
Willpower: 9
MIRKO MIRKONEN

Background: Mirko was born in Iceland in 835, the
son of a Viking and a weaver. He grew up in a small village
that was both ruled and protected by an ancient vampire
named Stilgar. He quickly became Stilgar’s favored disciple
and earned the Embrace. After years of tutelage under his
mentor’ s guidance, Mirkonen left his village to wander
Europe. Wherever war broke out, Mirkonen placed himself
in the middle of the  fray, where the blood and glory were
thickest.  Occasionally,  his  thirst  for  battle  earned  him
prolonged  Torpor,  but  he  emerged  from  each  incident
reinvigorated and ready for new challenges.

Mirkonen  was  only  a  nominal  supporter  of  the
Camarilla, but he despised the Sabbat for their practice of
patricide. He carried this hatred through to the modern
nights, which eventually led to his part in the destruction
of a Tremere  antitribu infiltrator named Lisa Morrison
who claimed domain in the suburbs north of Chicago.
After  a  thorough  investigation,  the  Camarilla  offered
Mirkonen a position as Archon.

Politely refusing, Mirkonen wandered west, where his
love of battle brought him repeatedly to Los Angeles and
San Francisco; he now waits for one or the other to break
into full-scale war so he can join the festivities. He partnered
himself with Gustavo Morales, and from time to time the
two  Kindred  hunt  Cathayans  in  San  Francisco’s  parks.
While it’ s not the full-scale mayhem Mirkonen anticipates,
it tides him over and makes him something of a cult figure
among the city’s Kindred. He also finds the taste of Cathayan
blood preferable to that of either animals or humans. It’ s a
vice he suspects he may someday regret.

Mirkonen’s primary claim to local fame, along with
Gustavo Morales, is his part in  the theft of the main parks
and the Richmond district from the Kuei-jin. While the
Kuei-jin  would  love  to  destroy  Mirkonen,  his  native
cunning,  hard-won  knowledge  of  tactics,  and  lethal
aptitude  with  his  own  Disciplines  make  that  prospect
difficult, if not impossible.

Image: Mirkonen is an enormous muscular man with
the  same  three-day  beard  growth  he  died  with  over  a
millennium ago. There’s a certain vulpine cunning in his
eyes that makes others uncomfortable. He typically wears
black steel-toed work boots, jeans and a black t-shirt. As
something of a signature note, Mirkonen always wears a
mangy fur vest that he made years ago.

Roleplaying Notes: Out of battle, you have nothing
to prove — you’re a relaxed and easy-going individual.
You know you’re a dangerous combatant, and there’ s no
reason  to  overstate  the  obvious  by  betraying  any

information  to  potential  adversaries.  Reflecting  your
respect  for  the  living  world,  you  attend  to  the  natural
order of things and try not to feed heavily from any one
area. In warfare, you  are a different person; every cruel
urge manifests when you enter your berserker rage. You
live for conflict and fancy yourself something of a tank.
You’re not flashy or fast, but you can both deliver and
withstand enormous damage.
Clan: Gangrel
Sire: Stilgar the Reaver
Nature: Judge
Demeanor: Bravo
Generation: 9th
Embrace: 851 CE
Apparent Age: Early 20s
Attributes: Strength 5, Dexterity 4, Stamina 5, Charisma
3,  Manipulation  2,  Appearance  4,  Perception  3,
Intelligence 4, Wits 2
Abilities:  Alertness  3,  Athletics  3,  Blind  Fighting  2,
Brawl  5,  Intimidation  5,  Leadership  2,  Streetwise  1,
Animal  Ken  4,  Stealth  1,  Survival  5,  Investigation  1,
Linguistics 3, Medicine 1
Disciplines:  Animalism  5,  Fortitude  5,  Obfuscate  2,
Potence 5, Protean 4
Backgrounds: Contacts 2, Retainers 2, Status 2
Virtues: Conscience 5, Self-Control 3, Courage 5
Morality: Humanity 5
Willpower: 8
GUSTAVO MORALES

Background: Even as a kid, Gustavo Morales loved
the outdoors. He often left the teeming masses of humanity
behind  on  his  walkabouts.  Growing  up  in  the  largely
undeveloped suburbs of San Diego during the Depression
gave him much room to explore.

CHAPTER FIVE: HONORED SHEN

In his adolescence, Morales never made many plans
for life, always half-heartedly assuming he would be drafted
and killed in WWII like his brother before him. When the
Japanese surrendered before he could enlist , however,
Morales  felt  denied  of  the  opportunity  to  avenge  his
brother. He bore that nugget of anger as a general hatred
for all Asians. After that, his only joy was backpacking
into  the  desert  or  the  mountains  to  escape  the  sweaty
throngs of people that pressed him from all sides when he
was anywhere near town.

It was on one of those backpacking excursions that he
met  Lobo  Larry.  Lobo  took  a  liking  to  Morales
immediately…    more  than  Morales  was  entirely
comfortable with, but there was something primal that
drew him to the other man. Lobo Embraced him. They
spent the next year together, with Lobo teaching Morales
the basics of hunting and survival. After he fulfilled his
basic responsibilities to his Childe, Lobo Larry disappeared
and Morales was left alone to make sense of his existence.
Until  settling  in  the  Bay  Area  in  1978,  Morales
wandered along the West Coast from Baja up to Alaska.
He patrolled the area’s wildlife refuges for poachers and
polluters,  and when prey was hard to find he would stalk
the muggers who frequented Golden Gate Park.

While San Francisco was a Camarilla city, Morales’
relationship  with  the  local  sect  extended  as  far  as  the
Prince  Thomas  acknowledging  him  and,  on  a  few
occasions, assisting the scourge. The Kuei-jin’s appearance
changed that. Morales’ anger over his brother’s death had
faded  but  his  disdain  toward  all  Asians  had  not.  In
Morales’ eyes, this was his opportunity to seek the revenge
denied him nearly sixty years ago.

Since  the  Kuei-jin  incursion,  Morales  claimed  San
Francisco’s parks — Lincoln, Golden Gate, the Presidio
and Golden Gate National Recreational area in particular
— as his hunting grounds. He tries killing any lone Kuei-
jin in the parks and, with Mirko Mirkonen, wages a war of

109

attrition against the invaders. This partially frees the parks
of both Kuei-jin and Tong control, though the Kuei-jin
rarely fear pushing back harder when there’ s cause for it.
Fortunately for Morales, their numerical deficit prohibits
any large scale-action against him… for now.

While certain elements of the Camarilla appreciate
Morales’  enthusiasm,  the  current  delicate  balance  of
diplomacy makes Morales something of a loose cannon
and a lightning rod for the Quincunx’ s hawks looking for
examples of Camarilla non-compliance. Prince Winder,
however, is loath to invoke the right of destruction. As
soon as the Inner Circle agrees, she intends to launch a
massive strike against the Cathayans. Both Morales and
Mirkonen are just the kind of infantry she needs when the
situation degenerates into open warfare, and she neither
wants  to  lose  a  good  fighter  nor  further  alienate  the
already  disenfranchised  Gangrel.  Every  time  an  Asian
vampire vanishes in or near one of San Francisco’s parks,
the Kuei-jin pressure her to issue a blood hunt.

Image:  Morales  is  a  tall,  thin,  but  still-attractive
Hispanic vampire who typically wears cargo pants and
sturdy shirts. His lean appearance belies his fighting skills,
as  evidenced by his tally of Kuei-jin victims.

Roleplaying  Notes:  You  do  your  own  thing.
Sometimes other folks like it, sometimes they don’t. If
they really don’t like it, and they’re tougher than you,
they’ll stop you. Otherwise it’s in their best interests to
leave you alone.
Clan: Gangrel
Sire: “Lobo” Larry Vasquez
Nature: Loner
Demeanor: Loner
Generation: 11th
Embrace: 1949
Apparent Age: Early 20s
Attributes: Strength 4, Dexterity 4, Stamina 5, Charisma
4,  Manipulation  2,  Appearance  4,  Perception  3,
Intelligence 3, Wits 4
Abilities:  Alertness  3,  Athletics  3,  Brawl  4,  Dodge  4,
Empathy 1, Streetwise 3, Animal Ken 5, Stealth 3, Survival
4, Academics 1, Investigation 1, Law 1, Linguistics 2
Disciplines:  Animalism  2,  Celerity  2,  Fortitude  4,
Obfuscate 2, Protean 3
Backgrounds: Mentor 1, Resources 1, Retainers 1
Virtues: Conscience 4, Self-Control 4, Courage 5
Morality: Humanity 9
Willpower: 8
TREMERE REGENT LUNA DEMIAN

Background: In the fall of 1760, a fiercely intellectual
spinster named Luna Demian was traveling from Prague
to  Basel,  Switzerland,  collecting  the  belongings  of  her
recently deceased father. Another passenger joined her in
the cab shortly after sundown on the second night, and
the  two  women  had  an  unusually  lively  discussion  on

110

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

matters academic and philosophical. It was the first time
in her life that bookish Demian felt truly understood. The
passenger  left  the  carriage  not  long  before  dawn  and
Demian, disappointed, resolved herself to enduring the
journey  to  Basel  alone.  The  next  night,  however,  her
companion Eve returned and the conversation continued.
Again, they spoke until just before dawn when Eve took
her leave. When Eve returned on the third night, Luna
asked her what it was like to be a vampire. Eve extended
an invitation to Demian to find out for herself, and the
brilliant spinster — with nothing looming in her future
but a solitary life and a lonely death — accepted.

The  encounter  was  not  the  accident  it  appeared.
Demian’s  Sire,  Eve  Cavanant  was  a  Pontifex  of  Clan
Tremere who had been watching Demian’ s father. When
the elder Demian became too feebleminded with age, Eve
turned  her  attentions  on  his  daughter.  The  meeting
aboard the carriage was an interview to certify the woman’s
intellect  warranted  her  Embrace  by  so  powerful  an
individual as Cavanant. She was deemed worthy.

Demian’s talents with research and the occult were
even  greater  than  Cavanant  dared  hope;  her  political
talents, however, were not. While her Thaumaturgical
skills  were  finely  honed,  she  failed  to  elevate  herself
greatly in the Tremere’s hierarchy.

In the intervening years, Demian devoted herself to
the cloistered life of a mystical researcher to the best of her
ability,  steering  clear  of  her  clan’s  notorious  political
games as much as possible. While this prevented her from
rising through the ranks, it benefited  her magical studies
immensely. Owing to her relatively low rank, however,
Demian was powerless to avoid reassignment from Europe
to the far western backwaters of the United States. Against
her wishes, she was made Regent of San Francisco.

To her credit, it was Demain who developed the Ward
Versus Cathayans that the Camarilla effectively used in the
CFZ campaign. Demian, however, consciously transferred
her  anger  at  the  Tremere  council  (over  her  unwanted
reassignment) to the Kuei-jin, whom she now works against
with tireless antipathy. Under her direction, Clan Tremere
goes to even greater lengths than the Ventrue to retake San
Francisco and oust the Asian invaders.

In  recent  years,  Demian  has  assumed  a  kindly
professorial role in relation to Martin Franckel. He learned
a  great  deal  about  Thaumaturgy  from  her,    and  she
appreciates another Tremere above clan politics. Owing
to  her  predecessor’s  demise  and  the  general  state  of
martial  alert,  Demian  has  grown    paranoid  since  her
transfer to San Francisco. At any given time, she is likely
to command between five and 12 well-armed and armored
decoy ghouls dressed in her exact likeness. She assigns
these Demians to her various haunts around the city or
with  her  to  protect/substitute  for  her  at  a  moment’s
notice.  At  Franckel’s  suggestion,    they  stay  linked  by
discreet  two-way  radios,  not  unlike  those  used  by  the
presidential secret service. Given her dramatic appearance,
Demian’s arrival with her entourage of pallid clones is an

impressive  spectacle,  even    in  a  city  as  accustomed  to
drama and artifice as San Francisco.

Image: Luna means “moon,” and Luna Demian takes
her  name  very  seriously.  She  was  middle  aged  when  she
received the Embrace and her hair had already turned silver.
Furthermore, death has given her  a smooth white alabaster-
like appearance, and she has a notable penchant for wearing
white and silver lace dresses. Those elements, when combined,
project an image that others find vivid and unforgettable, as
befits a woman of her vast learning and achievement.

Roleplaying  Notes:  You  have  no  time  for  social
niceties. When possible, you avoid interacting with others
in  favor  of  conducting  mystical  research  on  whatever
hapless  Kuei-jin  you  captured.  When  others  interrupt
you, you make sure they know it, though you are chillingly
polite when chastising them.
Clan: Tremere
Sire: Eve Cavanant
Nature: Perfectionist
Demeanor: Traditionalist
Generation: 7th
Embrace: 1760
Apparent Age: Mid 40s
Attributes: Strength 3, Dexterity 5, Stamina 6, Charisma
3,  Manipulation  5,  Appearance  3,  Perception  5,
Intelligence 6, Wits 4
Abilities: Alertness 5, Dodge 2, Intimidation 1, Leadership
4, Subterfuge 4, Crafts 1, Drive 1, Etiquette 5, Security 1,
Stealth 3, Academics 6, Computer 1, Finance 1, Investigation
2, Linguistics 5, Occult 5, Politics (Tremere) 4
Disciplines: Auspex 5, Celerity 2, Dominate 5, Fortitude
4, Obfuscate 3, Presence 1, Serpentis 1, Thaumaturgy 5,
Valeran 1
Thaumaturgical  Paths:  Path  of  Blood  5,  Path  of
Shadowcrafting 5, Lure of Flames 3, Hands of Destruction
3, Path of the Levinbolt 5, Spirit Manipulation 2

CHAPTER FIVE: HONORED SHEN

Thaumaturgical  Rituals:  Bind  the  Accusing  Tongue,
Blood Mastery, Bureaucratic Condemnation, Deny the
Intruder, Encrypt Missive, Scent of the Lupine’ s Passing,
Ward  Versus  Cathayans,  Incorporeal  Passage,  Bone  of
Lies, Escape to a True Friend, Ritual’s Recognition, Shaft
of Belated Quiescence, Soul of the Homunculus, Unweave
Ritual, Ward Versus Spirits
Backgrounds: Contacts 2, Herd 3, Resources 4, Retainers
3, Status 4
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 5, Courage 4
Morality: Humanity 4
Willpower: 9
MARTIN FRANCKEL

Background: Martin Franckel was born and reared in
Los  Angeles.  He  was  not  particularly  popular  in  high
school  and  took  refuge  in  math,  astronomy  and  other
interests that his peers labeled “nerdy.”  His interest in
intellectual  pursuits  served  him  well,  however,  and  he
attended  college  solely  on  scholarships.  He  was  an
engineering graduate student at UCLA, planning a long
and comfortable life as a computer systems engineer when
he received the Embrace.

His sire was Almiro Suarez, one of the rare anarch
Tremere,  a  Lick  only  a  few  years  into  his  unlife  who
assumed (rightly, as it turned out) that Franckel’s talents
and obsession with computers would translate well into
skill  with  Thaumaturgy.  Suarez  taught  Franckel  the
fundamentals of unlife and the two became, if not exactly
friends, then comfortable acquaintances. That ended one
night when Franckel asked his Sire what grand cause his
Embrace  served.  He  wanted  meaning  in  his  newly
nocturnal existence — and he didn’ t receive it. When
Franckel  discovered  his  comfortable  future  had  been
taken from him on a whim as part of an experiment, he
went berserk and diablarized the physically weak Suarez.
was
immediate 
“OhmygodwhathaveIdone?!”  He fled Los Angeles and,
after  a  while  existing  around  California,  came  to  San
Francisco. To his surprise, there existed a whole community
of  relatively  savvy  vampire  magicians.  The  woman  in
charge  of  the  region’  s  Tremere,  Luna  Demian,  took
Franckel in and judiciously ignored the spiritual diablerie
marks  on  his  aura.  Franckel  now  acts  as  her  research
assistant  into  Thaumaturgical  matters.  He  is  even
accredited with staging a faux movie shoot  to cover the
closing of the bridges around San Francisco long enough
to ward them against the Kuei-jin.

Franckel’s 

response 

Of final note, Franckel knows how to cast Ward versus
Cathayans when he shouldn’t. The Tremere have been
very careful to minimize the number of people who possess
the ritual within San Francisco to prevent it from falling
into  Kuei-jin  hands.  As  Demain’  s  assistant,  however,
Franckel secretly studied and memorized the ritual. Only
Demain and he know how to cast it, aside from the Tremere
in  the  Las  Vegas  Chantry  where  the  ritual’  s  script  is

111

actually kept. Should the Cathayans learn this, they may
arrange  for  Franckel’s  abduction  and  interrogation  to
determine what steps the Tremere will take after the wards
to imprison or inconvenience them further.

Image:  Martin  Franckel  is  a  handsome  man  with
curly dark hair and large eyes, though his nose might be
just a bit too large for his face. He does not dress with any
distinction whatsoever, and may wear the same rumpled
clothing for several days.

Roleplaying Notes: What the geek with big glasses
and a pocket pen protector is to computers, you are to
Thaumaturgical ritual. Your entire life centers on magical
theory.  You  don’t  like  socializing  with  non-Tremere
because you can’ t talk to them, and if you do, they just
don’t understand what you mean. Even basic Cabbalistic
concepts  like  the  Holy  Sephiroth  —  which  absolutely
everyone should know — appear b eyond them. It drives
you nuts.
Clan: Tremere
Sire: Almiro Suarez
Nature: Fanatic
Demeanor: Geek
Generation: 12th
Embrace: 1992
Apparent Age: Mid 20s
Attributes: Strength 3, Dexterity 2, Stamina 3, Charisma
2,  Manipulation  2,  Appearance  4,  Perception  4,
Intelligence 5, Wits 4
Abilities: Alertness 4, Dodge 1, Empathy 3, Leadership 1,
Subterfuge 3, Animal Ken 1, Drive 3, Etiquette 2, Firearms
2,  Security  1,  Stealth  1,  Academics  4,  Computer  5,
Investigation 4, Medicine 3, Occult 4, Science 2
Disciplines: Auspex 3, Dominate 2, Thaumaturgy 4
Thaumaturgical  Paths:  Path  of  Blood  4,  Path  of
Technomancy 4

112

Thaumaturgical Rituals: Purity of Flesh, Donning the
Mask  of  Shadows,  Telecommunication,  Ward  Versus
Cathayans
Backgrounds: Allies 1, Contacts 1, Herd 1, Resources 3,
Retainers 1
Virtues: Conscience 4, Self-Control 3, Courage 3
Morality: Humanity 7
Willpower: 5
SABBAT & ANARCHS

There was a time when the Sabbat carried great hope
for the American Southwest. They believed the Camarilla’s
overwhelmingly Eurocentric outlook would, in the course
of time, cause them to overlook this “rugged frontier.”
Once the Camarilla’s conflict against the anarchs was in
full swing, the Sabbat hoped that either the anarchs or the
Camarilla would weaken, allowing the Sabbat to move in,
mop up and fortify its Mexican holdings.

Such  was  not  the  case.  The  conflict  between  the
Camarilla and the anarchs was more akin to a father and his
wayward son. While there was much frustration and anger
on both sides, the conflict never became as bloody as the
Sabbat hoped. It was a cold war more than anything else.
Both sides built up their forces and pitched their ideologies,
but their skirmishes were token at best, ultimately leaving
the Sabbat in a worse situation than before.

With  the  Kuei-jin  incursion,  the  Sabbat  again
anticipate a bloody conflict that will leave the Camarilla
weakened and ripe for annihilation. Thus far, the situation
has not developed to their liking. The Camarilla’s and
Quincunx’ s diplomatic tactics result in a state of relatively
tolerant détente, in which both sides simply rattle sabers
and struggle to bolster their forces. In the Camarilla’ s
case, the build up brought in relatively powerful ancillae,
leading many Sabbat strategists to advise forgetting about
America’s West Coast indefinitely unless they can bring
significant force to bear against the city.

As far as the Sabbat can tell, the Quincunx willingly
plays  the  Camarilla’s  game  of  “Let’s  Ignore  the
Antediluvians.”  The two powers could, with little difficulty,
decide  they  possess  more  in  common  with  one  another
than with the Sabbat, and work in conjunction to destroy
local Sabbat efforts. On the other hand, if the Sabbat can
somehow scuttle the Camarilla’ s peace process or otherwise
instigate full-scale war between the Camarilla and its Asian
invaders, then the Sabbat might yet have a chance.

Needless to say, the only agenda the Sabbat has for
San Francisco is sabotage the peaceful coexistence between
the Camarilla and the Quincunx. To that end the Sabbat
sent in a highly trained, highly motivated Templar and
her pack,  Killing Spree. Her role is to study the diplomatic
tactics used by the very different Camarilla and Quincunx
and  undermine them. While she has not yet succeeded,
the Sabbat hierarchy is willing to give her time. By and
large, the Sabbat feels San Francisco is lost to them. If
Templar  Martinez  succeeds,  however,  the  Sabbat’  s

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

approach  to  all  of  North  America  could  change
dramatically. Needless to say, the Sabbat’s powers-that-
be watch quietly.

Likewise, San Francisco’s anarchs currently maintain
an extremely low profile and transitory existence. While
several maintain temporary havens in San Francisco, they
use  the  Bay  Area  as  a  waypoint    for  travel,  rest  or
negotiations with local vampires. There is no permanent
anarch population, and at this point they are hesitant to
antagonize the Camarilla for fear of alienating one of the
few potential allies in their struggle against the Kuei-jin.
That said, an ethic of autonomy and free will forged the
anarch movement, and how individual anarchs comport
themselves is entirely of their own choosing.
CONSUELA MARIA MARTINEZ, PACK LEADER
OF KILLING SPREE

Background: Consuela Martinez’ s highest ambition
in her living days was to marry well. It was what she had
been taught. It was what she knew. When she was seventeen,
a handsome Spaniard passed through her village and paid
her parents a large sum simply to dine with her. It was an
odd request for many reasons. Firstly, there was no reason
a  rich  nobleman  need  speak  with  the  lady  Martinez.
Secondly, in the eyes of her parents, the young woman
wasn’t pretty enough to warrant such attention. In hopes
the dinner would somehow lead to a higher quality of life
as the in-laws of nobility, they consented.

As the nobleman’s servants brought in course after
course, Martinez ate. The nobleman, Don Guzman, merely
watched and occasionally asked her questions. When the
time  came,  he  walked  her  back  home  and  asked  her
parents how much money they wanted for their daughter.
The parents did not ask why; they simply quoted him an
exorbitant  figure.  If  he  accepted,  they  were  rich.  If  he
refused, they could simply tell their daughter they had
dissuaded him with their outlandish price.

Don Guzman grew very grave and asked Martinez to
wait for him at his coach. When she left, the nobleman
rebuked the girl’s parents for their cruelty and hypocrisy.
Then he fed on them.

Guzman  Embraced  Martinez  that  night,  and  from
then on tutored  her aggressively in the arts of leadership
and strategy. While there was no doubt Martinez was a
part  of  the  Sabbat,  she  was  about  as  connected  to  the
nightly excesses of Tzimisce-led war packs as a pampered
elite military advisor to the shock troops in a ground war.
Or at least, that was the case until San Francisco.

Nearly  three  years  ago,  Guzman  (and  the  Sabbat
hierarchy) assigned Martinez the task of breaking down
diplomatic  discussions  between  the  Camarilla  and  the
Quincunx. Guzman bred her specifically with the skill to
fight the Camarilla at their own games. Her first attempt
— using a turned Camarilla archon — failed . Since then,
Martinez  studies  the  diplomacy  tactics  of  both  the
Camarilla and the Quincunx. While her primary goal at

CHAPTER FIVE: HONORED SHEN

the moment is information gathering, she finds it difficult
given that  her pack, Killing Spree, is eager for bloodletting.
Their strategies call for mass Embrace and war parties,
while Martinez’s approach demands subtlety and patience.
Fortunately,  The Misery Lords pack is proving closer to
her needs. Martinez finds herself relying more on their
skills than those of her own pack.

Regardless,  the  time  for  study  and  waiting  is  over.
Martinez’s next strike must be within six months, otherwise
her superiors will become impatient. Martinez is nothing
if not motivated: Guzman told her should she successfully
pit the Camarilla and the Quincunx against one another,
the Sabbat will pick her to  be San Francisco’s Bishop once
the smoke clears.

Image: Martinez dresses with austere conservatism. She
prefers long black skirts to pants and her blouses cover her
neck and wrists in a way reminiscent of Victorian sensibilities.
Otherwise she is a woman of obvious Hispanic extraction
with a beauty only brought to the fore through her death.
Roleplaying  Notes:  You  are  regal  and  stern.  As  a
dead thing, there is no room for laughter left. More to the
point, there is no room in your existence for anything but
tactics.  Everything  you  say  and  do  is  calculated  and
deliberate; there are few accidents or slips in your life.
Clan: Lasombra
Sire: Sergio Guzman
Nature: Perfectionist
Demeanor: Autocrat
Generation: 9th
Embrace: 1754
Apparent Age: Late teens
Attributes: Strength 4, Dexterity 4, Stamina 5, Charisma
3,  Manipulation  5,  Appearance  3,  Perception  4,
Intelligence 4, Wits 4

113

Abilities:  Alertness  3,  Athletics  3,  Brawl  4,  Dodge  4,
Empathy 1, Expression 2, Intimidation 4, Leadership 5,
Streetwise 2, Subterfuge 4, Drive 3, Etiquette 3, Firearms
3, Performance 2, Stealth 3, Academics 2, Bureaucracy 1,
Camarilla Lore 2, Enigmas 2, Finance 3, Investigation 3,
Law 1, Linguistics 2
Disciplines: Auspex 1, Celerity 3, Dominate 4, Fortitude
3, Obtenebration 5, Potence 5
Backgrounds: Contacts 5, Resources 4, Sabbat Status 3
Virtues: Conviction 5, Instinct 3, Courage 4
Morality: Path of Power and the Inner Voice 7
Willpower: 8
CARLOS GRIFFOULIERE

Background:  In  his  youth  in  Puerto  Rico,  people
knew Carlos Griffouliere for his excesses. His vices were
a thing of legend, as were the men and women he bedded.
Griffouliere was a frequent associate of Puerto Rico’s
underworld as well, and many of its more active figures
were his friends. It would be difficult to discuss Griffouliere
without his  friends, in fact, because they played a large
role in his life. Indeed, when he partied with his associates,
it was he who watched out for them.

He  made  one  too  many  acquaintances,  however,
when he took the charismatic Antonio Molina into his
confidence. Unfortunately, none of Griffouliere’s friends
were there to protect him  when it turned out Molina was
a vampire. Molina was a scout for the Sabbat, and believed
Griffouliere  a  perfect  candidate  for  the  Embrace.  The
young  man  possessed  the  social  bent  and  lack  of  firm
ethics that the sect valued.

Within a month of meeting the enigmatic Molina,

Griffouliere was a vampire.

Despite his Sire’s predictions, the Embrace did not
agree with Griffouliere; while his ethics were nebulous,
his morals were not, and the Sabbat’ s nightly exploits
appalled and nauseated him. His Vinculum to his pack,
however, kept him in line. Griffouliere’ s Embrace did
nothing to quash his nurturing tendencies; if anything, he
became  more  attentive  to  those  who  needed  him  as  a
means of atoning for the carnage his kind and he wrought
every evening.

Griffouliere’s pack leader, a Tzimisce called Viridian,
recognized  the  young  Lasombra’s  streak  of  rebellious
humanity.  He  made  certain  the  pack  underwent  the
Vinculum  far  more  often  than  actually  necessary.  The
idea was to keep Griffouliere firmly bound to his pack, and
through  them,  the  Sabbat.  Under  most  circumstances,
the plan would have worked, but in this case, it did not.
Within a decade, Griffouliere grew immune to the vitae’
s bonding effects. Since then, he grew increasingly distant
from the sects’ goals and ideals.

Amusingly,  while  Griffouliere’s  connection  to  the
Sabbat waned, the sect’s appreciation of his leadership and
information gathering skills increased substantially. When
Consuela Martinez assembled Killing Spree to scout out

114

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

San Francisco, she chose Griffouliere early on — an awkward
development considering the only thing currently keeping
him in the Sabbat is his fear of his clan’s treatment of its
antitribu. Once Griffouliere gathers enough information on
the Sabbat’s various California efforts (particularly in San
Francisco), nothing will keep him from defecting to the
Camarilla with his information save for destruction.

Image: Griffouliere is an attractive man with precisely
trimmed  facial  hair.  He  typically  dresses  formally,  but
when he goes out to party he wears clothing that shows off
his chiseled body.

Roleplaying  Notes:  You  do  not  share  your  sect’s
views on mortals. On the contrary, you rather like them,
because they — unlike most vampires —  have a sense of
humor. You are oddly jovial for an undead, and this makes
you  seem  harmless.  Among  your  associates  everyone
confides in you. You may as well be your pack’s confessor,
because you serve that function frequently and well. You
are also friendly with strangers. You believe strangers are
just  contacts  not  yet  made,  and  humans  and  vampires
alike may become further nodes in your ever-expanding
web of informants.

That said, you do not like your de facto commander in
this  conflict.  To  you,  unlife  should  be  a  never-ending
party. To Consuela Martinez and Killing Spree, it is an
eternal struggle. When the time comes, betraying her will
be a pleasure.
Clan: Lasombra (soon to be antitribu)
Sire: Antonio Molina
Nature: Caregiver
Demeanor: Bon Vivant

Generation: 10th
Embrace: 1961
Apparent Age: Mid 30s
Attributes: Strength 3, Dexterity 4, Stamina 3, Charisma
4,  Manipulation  3,  Appearance  4,  Perception  4,
Intelligence 3, Wits 4
Abilities:  Alertness  3,  Athletics  2,  Brawl  2,  Dodge  4,
Empathy  4,  Leadership  3,  Streetwise  4,  Subterfuge  3,
Drive 3, Etiquette 2, Performance 2, Security 2, Stealth 4,
Survival 2, Academics 1, Investigation 3, Law 1, Linguistics
2, Medicine 1
Disciplines:  Celerity  2,  Dominate  2,  Fortitude  2,
Obtenebration 4, Potence 3
Backgrounds: Generation 3, Herd 4, Contacts 5
Merits: Unbondable
Virtues: Conscience 5, Self-Control 3, Courage 3
Morality: Humanity 5 (and rising)
Willpower: 7

SCARLET CARSON O’TOOLE

Background: Growing up in Boston as the child
of Irish immigrant parents, Scarlet Carson O’Toole
was  a  product  of  the  Baby  Boom  following  World
War II. Spoiled by her parents, O’ Toole was a brat
who  learned  the  arts  of  manipulation  early.  She
managed to exploit her parents, and when she left
them  for  college,  she  charmed  other  people  into
serving her.

O’Toole  met  Rudy  Scruggs  at  a  New  York
nightclub; when she saw he was rich, she decided he
would  be  a  good  toy  for  a  while.  It  was  a  game  she
played quite successfully throughout college, and by
that point she was quite adept at it. Unfortunately for
Scruggs,  the  Embrace  does  not  impart  intellectual
ability; he was not the brightest vampire around. With
her sweet looks and coy mannerisms, O’ Toole wrapped
him  around  her  finger.  Within  a  week,  he  told  her
about  his  nature.  A  month  beyond  that  and  he
introduced her as his ghoul (which she wasn’t). After
nearly  six  months,  O’  Toole  charmed  Scruggs  into
giving her the Embrace. Once she realized Scruggs was
no longer useful, she skipped town before he thought
of blood bonding her.

From New York, O’Toole fled home to Boston,
where  she  lived  in  her  parent’s  basement.  Judging
from their daughter’s behavior, her parents believed
she’d  become  a  heroin  junkie  in  New  York.  She
fostered their belief until their eventual deaths; while
it was a difficult burden to bear, it was far easier than
telling  her  staunchly  Catholic  parents  she  drank
blood and cavorted with creature of darkness.

Without her parents to shield her, O’Toole was
alone and forced to fend for herself for the first time.
She returned to New York hoping  to find Scruggs,
but  discovered  he  had  been  destroyed.  His  pack,

CHAPTER FIVE: HONORED SHEN

The Misery Lords, however, welcomed her warmly
and made sure she took part in the Vinculum.

O’Toole has been a charm machine for the Sabbat
ever since. Extracting information from Camarilla
Kindred whenever possible, O’ Toole made herself
useful in whatever ways served her family best. By
the time New York fell to the Camarilla, however,
O’Toole was a veteran information gatherer and a
pack leader.

The  Misery  Lords  consist  entirely  of  vampires
trained in information gathering, and with all the
Camarilla’s emphasis on the Cathayans, their guard
slips  just  a  bit  around  Caucasian  vampires  —  a
weakness O’Toole and her pack exploit to the best
of  their  abilities.  Neither  have  their  efforts  gone
unnoticed  by  Consuela  Maria  Martinez,  the  pack
leader  for  Killing  Spree  and  the  war  bishop
supervising Sabbat efforts in San Francisco. O’Toole
knows that if  she and The Misery Lords can prove
their usefulness to Martinez, they may earn positions
of power when the city falls to the Sabbat.

Image: Scarlet Carson O’Toole is a petite woman
just over five feet tall. Her short red hair and freckles
make  her  seem  childlike  in  a  wholesome,  all-
American way. O’ Toole moves in a deliberate and
graceful  manner  that  also  lends  her  a  sexy  and
slightly arrogant appearance.

Roleplaying  Notes:  You’re  cute.  You  trade  on
cute. Folks applied words like “spunky” and “perky”
to you when you were alive. Though you certainly
don’  t  feel  that  way  anymore,  it  has  become  clear
that the impression of childish naiveté makes them

115

dismiss you as harmless — a misconception you find
invaluable in gathering intelligence.
Clan: City Gangrel
Sire: Rudolph Scruggs
Nature: Child
Demeanor: Trickster
Generation: 11th
Embrace: 1967
Apparent Age: Early 20s
Attributes: Strength 2, Dexterity 4, Stamina 3, Charisma
3,  Manipulation  4,  Appearance  4,  Perception  4,
Intelligence 3, Wits 3
Abilities: Alertness 3, Athletics 2, Dodge 1, Empathy 4,
Expression 3, Subterfuge 4, Drive 3, Etiquette 3, Stealth
3, Survival 2, Academics 2, Camarilla Lore 2, Investigation
3, Politics 2, Science 1
Disciplines: Celerity 4, Fortitude 1, Obfuscate 2, Presence
1, Protean 3
Backgrounds:  Generation  2,  Contacts  4,  Resources  2,
Status 1
Virtues: Conscience 3, Self-Control 4, Courage 2
Morality: Humanity 6
Willpower: 6
OTHER SHEN
MADAM XIU PING

Background: Xiu Ping was orphaned at the age
of fifteen when she saw her family ripped apart by a
marauding Devil Tiger. A week later, Chu Fang, one
of  the  Middle  Kingdom’s  solitary  devil  hunters,
slew a Devil Tiger before her eyes.

Having no family, Xiu Ping asked to travel with
the  man,  who  instructed  her  comprehensively  in
the arts of the Shih. All Xiu Ping had to do in return
was  sleep  with  the  old  man.  While  it  was  not  a
relationship  she  sought  out,  it  served  its  purpose.
Xiu Ping acted as Chu Fang’s child bride for seven
years before he rescued another girl, took her  for his
child bride, and cut all ties with Xiu Ping.

At the age of twenty-two with no social ties to
any community, Xiu Ping became a wandering devil
slayer  herself.  Her  rage  at  Chu  Fang’s  betrayal  was
enormous, but she channeled it into her fights against
unbalanced  shen. When she heard that Chu Fang and
his concubine had met their demise at the claws of a
trio of vicious old Kumo, she rejoiced — and then she
avenged their deaths by slaying the spider devils.

Xiu Ping’s wanderings led her across most of China,
but after slaying one devil too many, Xiu Ping was done
with the Middle Kingdom and its nocturnal denizens.
At the age of forty-six, after nearly thirty years of living
in  the  shadowy  world  of  the  Shih,  she  effectively
“retired.”    Paying  an  enormous  sum  of  money  to  a
Shanghai Triad to smuggle her into San Francisco on an

116

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

CH’IN TA

Although matters changed drastically in the last five
years, San Francisco has been a refuge for the eccentric
will-workers called mages for decades. The relatively low
Wall  rating  combined  with  San  Francisco’  s  liberal
attitudes and somewhat mystical native bent simplified
life for magic practitioners.

Even  the  hostilities  between  the  mystical
traditions  and  the  Technocracy  are  relatively  low
key. Now that the Technocracy has won the war —
in the Bay Area more than almost any other place
on  Earth  —    it  is  in  a  position  to  show  a  certain
noblesse oblige to the quaint eccentrics who insist on
dancing to a different drum.
FATHER LI T’IEN

Background:  Li  T’ien’s  father  was  a  dragon
wizard  who  raised  his  son  with  the  intent  he  too
would  become  a  dragon  wizard.  By  the  time  of  Li
T’ien’s “capping,” or coming of age ritual when he
received his formal hat and robes, he was already a
mage of some ability.

In  all  ways,  Li  T’ien  appeared  an  admirably
orthodox young man. When he  announced he was
moving  to  the  United  States  to  watch  over  his
countrymen  who  had  gone  to  work  there,  it  was  a
shock to all who knew him. He persisted and argued
his  position  by  stating  that  the  North  American
Chinese needed sages, judges and ministers as greatly
as those who remained at home. So saying, he sailed
to San Francisco where he has lived since.

That was over one hundred and fifty years ago.
Li T’ien stays alive and healthy through alchemy,
and he looks better than many men a third his age.
With time, Li T’ien ensconced himself in the very

overcrowded and leaking cargo ship, Xiu Ping thought
she had ended her years as an active Shih.

j u s t
T h e   R e a g a n   a d m i n i s t r a t i o n   h a d  
dismembered the American economy when Xiu Ping
arrived in the United States. Compared to slaying
monsters,  working  three  minimum  wage  jobs  was
nothing.  After  two  solid  years  of  work  and  an
extremely  impoverished  lifestyle,  Xiu  Ping  earned
enough to rent a small storefront, which she turned
into a private Kung Fu studio. News of her speed and
p o w e r f u l   t e c h n i q u e s   s p r e a d   t h r o u g h o u t   S a n
Francisco’s  martial  arts  community.  Within  six
months her school, the Xiu Ping Academy of Kung
Fu, had a waiting list nearly sixty names long waiting
to enroll.

It was, Xiu Ping thought, a pleasant way to finish out

this lifetime.

Then she noticed the Kuei-jin.
Xiu  Ping  went  out  on  long  nocturnal  walks,
watching the siege of San Francisco’s nights unfolding
around her. It was that experience that prompted her
to turn her best Kung Fu student into a Shih apprentice.
If the Kuei-jin were as prone to excess as they were in
China, America would need its own defender against
the  Ten-Thousand  Devils.  Since  then,  Madam  Xiu
undergoes great effort to ready her adopted Western
son in his mastery of the Shih arts.

Image: Xiu Ping approaches her seventies, but
she  looks  and  comports  herself  like  a  woman  in
h e r   e a r l y   f i f t i e s .   S h e   d r e s s e s   s i m p l y   a n d
traditionally,  so  resembling  the  other  women  of
her apparent age that she is almost invisible within
the confines of Chinatown.

CHAPTER FIVE: HONORED SHEN

117

heart  of  Chinatown  in  a  small  house  that  looks
transplanted from China itself.

truth (and if the individual is akuma, Li T’ien knows
and he will destroy the demon).

True to his word, Li T’ien has advised Chinatown’s
inhabitants on issues of law, religion, proper behavior,
medicine and mysticism since the 19th century. In
his  own  mind  and  in  those  of  many  Chinatown’  s
inhabitants, he is a spiritual authority as important to
his constituency as the Pope is to Catholics. Li T’ien
is a one-man anchor of traditional Chinese culture in
America. As such,  the Kuei-jin have much to thank
him for; it is Father Li T’ien and others like him who
transported  enough  of  the  Middle  Kingdom  to  this
side of the Pacific and preserved it well enough for
new Kuei-jin to arise here.

On the other hand, despite a certain acceptance
for other Chinese shen, Li T’ ien himself is not fond
of vampires of any variety, East or West. He believes
no  amount  of  preying  on  his  friends  and  family  is
acceptable. Kuei-jin may approach Father Li T’ien
for  conversation,  but  if  that  individual  feeds  from
anyone of Asian ancestry in North America, the old
man punishes the supplicant upon uncovering the

Over  the  years,  Li  T’ien  worked  with  a  variety  of
community groups, police task forces and other watchdogs
to eradicate Chinatown’ s Tong presence. Until recently,
he  was  quite  certain  the  gangs  were  on  the  wane,  but
increased local drug peddling reversed that trend. Father
Li T’ien currently prepares to rectify the problem.

Image: Father Li T’ien is a very old man, but he is no
less formidable for that. His aura of bearing and control in
itself  is enough to make others listen to his words. When
he is outside, he always wears a large black hat with beads
hanging from the brim, covering his face.

Roleplaying  Notes:  You  view  yourself  not  as  an
individual but an institution. You fill many roles for San
Francisco’s  Chinese  residents:  confessor,  doctor,
psychologist, mystic and judge. Decades of determined
study made you worthy of such responsibility, and while
you are not arrogant, neither are you humble. You consider
yourself a sage, with all the benefits and responsibilities
pertaining thereto.

118

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

CHAPTER SIX: STORYTELLING SAN FRANCISCO

119

Chapter Six:
Storytelling
San Francisco

There are eight million stories in the naked

city. This was one of them.

— The Naked City television series

As the setting where the future relations between
Kuei-jin  and  the  Kindred  hang  in  the  balance,  San
Francisco is full of stories for a Kindred of the East (or
Vampire: The Masquerade ) chronicle. This chapter
examines the different kinds of stories waiting to be told,
their major themes, various conflicts within the city and
how to handle them. It also provides game information
on some matters specific to the San Francisco setting
and the conflict between the New Promise Mandarinate
and the Camarilla.

SAN FRANCISCO STORIES

Storytellers can use this sourcebook to run a single
story or two set in San Francisco, to run a short series of
stories based in and around the city (a “mini-series”), or
to set an entire chronicle in the Bay Area before, during
or after the Kuei-jin invasion. The type of story partially
dictates how the characters become involved and what
aspects of the city the Storyteller should emphasize.

ONE-SHOT STORIES

The simplest San Francisco  story and one that is
easy to drop into an existing chronicle is a one-shot, in
which  the  characters  visit  San  Francisco,  become
involved in local events for a while, then return home.
A one-shot provides a change of scenery for an ongoing
chronicle,  gives  the  characters  a  hint  of  what’s
happening elsewhere in the world and involves them
in events  of importance.

For either a Kindred of the East or Vampire: The
Masquerade chronicle, the standard one-shot assumes
either  the  characters’    superiors  send  them  to  San
Francisco or that they have a reason to visit the city on
their own. In the former case, the characters may be
experts or “troubleshooters” (a war- or espionage-trained
wu , Justicars, diplomats, etc.) dispatched to handle a
particular problem. The August Courts, for example,
might send a wu to deal with the Gangrel in Golden
Gate  Park  (see  p.  49).  The  Camarilla  might  send
envoys to contact the Gangrel and ask them to ease up

120

in their campaign against the Cathayans in order  to
stave  off  further  conflict.  Matters  become  more
interesting if both groups arrive around the same time….
Alternately, being sent to San Francisco might be a
punishment  of  sorts.  The  city  is  certainly  dangerous
territory; one misstep can mean Final Death at the hands
of edgy and paranoid vampires. Kuei-jin who displease
their elders or earn reputations as troublemakers might  be
chosen for “a glorious mission in the Great Leap Outward,”
simply to excise them from the August Courts and ensure
they don’t return. The ancestors are particularly renowned
for  sending  agitators  like  the  Foreigner-Vanquishing
Crusaders  to  “aid”  the  New  Promise  Mandarinate  as  a
means of testing the Cloud Mandarins and the Fence-
Menders faction, ensuring they don’ t become too powerful.
By the same token, San Francisco is a suitable environs for
Kindred to send neonates, either to test their mettle or to
stir up trouble in hopes of forcing a confrontation with the
Cathayans sooner.

Since a one-shot story doesn’t offer much time to
develop a complex plot, it’s best to offer the players a
quick  “snapshot”  of  the  city  and  its  situation.  Give
them the chance to  interact with a major supporting
character  or  two  (see  Chapter  Five  for  inspiration),
then focus their attention on a particular area of the
city. Allow them to develop a feel for what it’s like for
local vampires existing in a fragile state of peace. In  the
above example, you could focus the story around Golden
Gate Park and its environs, stressing the isolation of
the  park  and  how  no  one  else  ventures  there.  Each
neighborhood offers its own unique flavor for a quick
San Francisco adventure.

Alternately,  Storytellers  can  give  players  a  fast
sampling of everything —  a whirlwind tour that takes
them  to  several  prominent  locations.  They  start  out
meeting someone on a foggy night on top of Telegraph
Hill,  proceed  to  a  nightclub  in  the  Castro,  then  a
gambling parlor in Chinatown, followed by a chase up
through Nob Hill involving a cable car, before finally
arriving at the waterfront. This approach packs as much
flavor into the story as possible, but it can overwhelm
players if it isn’t kept under control. Try and use enough
of the city to offer the players a taste in a one-shot story,
but don’t over-season.
MINI-SERIES

A  “mini-series”  is  several  (anywhere  from  two  to
eight or more) stories linked together, but with a definite
resolution in mind. Storytellers can insert a mini-series
into a regular chronicle or  it can be a mini-chronicle
unto itself, with a beginning, middle and end.

 The pre-determined ending is the key to a mini-series.
Not that the Storyteller should force players along a fixed
storyline toward an inevitable ending, but it’s important
there be conditions  that will end the series. For example, a
mini-series could be based around a wu sent to San Francisco

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

on a mission for an August Courts ancestor. When the wu
completes or fails its assignment (which may take several
sessions), they return home and series is over. A longer
mini-series could be depend on the conflict between local
Kuei-jin  and  Kindred;  when  one  side  wins  a  decisive
victory, the series is over. This type of series, however, is
likely long enough to be a chronicle on its own.
SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLES

Finally,  Storytellers  should  find  everything  they
need in this book to design and run an entire  Kindred
of the East or Vampire: The Masquerade chronicle set
in San Francisco. A chronicle offers in-depth use of the
setting’s various supporting characters, backdrops and
themes over the course of many stories. The chronicle
can be open-ended (running for as long as the Storyteller
and the players remain interested) or of a pre-determined
length (either a set number of sessions or with a “trigger”
event that wraps up matters).

San  Francisco  is  a  particularly  good  setting  for
introducing Vampire players to Kindred of the East
since  many  familiar  elements  are  present,  with  the
addition  of  the  Kuei-jin  and  the  New  Promise
Mandarinate. A Storyteller could even end an existing
chronicle or run a short mini-series where the players
play Kindred characters. They meet the Cathayans and
must deal with them. Then in the new chronicle they
assume  the  role  of  Kuei-jin  in  a  strange  and  foreign
land,  seeing  everything  from  the  other  side  of  the
fence.  The  city’s  relative  isolation  from  the  August
Courts and the Middle Kingdom means the Storyteller
can use as much or as little of the Kindred of the East
background  as  desired.  Once  the  players  are  more
familiar with the setting, perhaps a visit to the Middle
Kingdom is in order, sending them to Hong Kong (for
example) to receive a taste of events back home.
EXISTING CHRONICLES

Storytellers  with  Kindred  of  the  East  or  Vampire
chronicles already set in San Francisco may want to integrate
the material and supporting characters from this book into
their games. Naturally, it’s up to the Storyteller to decide
what  to  include  and  what  to  change  or  ignore.    If  the
chronicle  diverges  considerably  from  the  plot  described
here and in other Kindred  of  the  East books, then the
Storyteller  may  ignore  all  but  the  general  background,
changing the specifics to suit the chronicle’s needs.

Some  Storytellers  may  want  to  play  out  events
described  in  Chapter  Two,  perhaps  running  the
associated  adventures  from  books  like  Nights  of
Prophecy  .  In  this  case,  the  events  may  play  out
somewhat  differently,  changing  conditions  in  San
Francisco.  The  characters  might  blunt  some  of  the
Kuei-jin invasion, or ensure it is even more successful.
Perhaps  the  wu  assassinates  Jochen  Van  Nuys,
eliminating  him  as  a  local  player  and  placing  more
authority in the hands of Sara Ann Winder. Characters

CHAPTER SIX: STORYTELLING SAN FRANCISCO

121

KEEPING IT MYSTERIOUS

An element of horror is dealing with the unknown.
It’s  frightening  when  you  face  an  unholy  creature
returned from the dead to feast on human blood. It’s
even  more  frightening  when  you’  re  unsure  exactly
what that unholy creature can do and, more importantly,
what you must do to stop it. That kind of uncertainty
disappears when players completely memorize (or have
easy  access  to)  the  Vampire:  the  Masquerade  and
Kindred of the East rulebooks and sourcebooks. So
here are some ways Storytellers can keep the supernatural
antagonists of a chronicle more mysterious.

•Show, Don’t Tell: When a supernatural being
uses its abilities, don’t say “The akuma uses Goblin
Scorch  against  you.”  Say  instead  something  like,  “
Your opponent’s jaws open wide, wider than should
be possible and breathes a gout of cold, dark flame at
you.”  The  players  don’t  know  they  face  a  Kuei-jin
(much less an akuma ) or the intent of her actions.
Describe  the  effects  of  a  Kuei-jin  (or  Kindred)
Discipline rather than falling back on the standard
names from the rules. Even experienced players can’t
always tell the difference between, say, Bone Shintai
and Protean. Don’t offer the players more information
than their characters know and they’ll be more cautious
in dealing with situations.

with prolonged involvement in San Francisco may  be
power-players following the arrival of the New Promise
Mandarinate.  See  “Playing  the  Political  Game”  (p.
129) for more ideas on running a high-powered, high-
influence chronicle set in San Francisco.

Storytellers with existing San Francisco chronicles
may  also  “skip  over”    over  the  events  described  in
Chapter  Two,  moving  the  chronicle  ahead  several
months and starting anew with the situation as described
in  this  book.  Be  careful  to  consult  with  the  players,
however, before making a unilateral decision to jump
the  chronicle  forward.  This  could  rob  players  of  the
opportunity to involve themselves in unfolding events.
Finally,  a  Storyteller  may  end  an  existing  San
Francisco chronicle and start anew with the material in
this book. The Kuei-jin invasion certainly makes a good
“break  point”    for  ending  one  chronicle  and  starting
another, particularly if the old characters are destroyed
or  flee  the  city.  Maybe  some  old  characters  are  still
around as supporting cast in the new chronicle (with
their players’ permission, of course).
FEAR AND IGNORANCE

An  important  mood  element  in  a  San  Francisco
chronicle  is  the  atmosphere  of  fear  and  ignorance
surrounding  the  Kuei-jin  and  the  Kindred  regarding

•It’s  Magic:  Kindred  Thaumaturgy  and  Kuei-jin
Rituals are great and mysterious powers simply because
they can accomplish almost anything , given enough time,
materials and arcane knowledge. Throwing the occasional
curse or other occult effect at the characters can help keep
them  from  growing  too  complacent.  It’s  also  easy  to
introduce entirely  new rituals into the chronicle that the
characters have no way of fathoming (unless one of them
possesses Occult 5 and rolls really well).

•Closed-Book Play: Don’t allow players to look up
information on their opponents (or allies, for that matter)
during  the  game.  Storytellers  should  be  flexible  about
letting players check game information needed for their
characters,  but  generally  people  shouldn’t  be  flipping
through books during the game anyway. Encourage players
to resist the temptation of reading about their character’s
antagonists,  or  at  least  not  to  use  that  information  if
there’s no way their characters would know about it.

•Change the Rules: When all else fails, a sure way of
maintaining the chronicle’ s mystery is to change the rules
without telling the players. Storytellers shouldn’t do this
to their characters, only to things their characters wouldn’t
necessarily know. The Storyteller may decide the effects
of  Flame  Shintai  or  Vicissitude  look  entirely  different
from their descriptions in the books, or that different dots
grant different abilities. When the players ask, “What the
hell was that?”  Just smile and say, “I don’t know, you’ve
never seen anything like it before.”

their  opposite  numbers.  Although  both  types  of
vampires existed for untold millennia, there has been
fairly little contact between them and almost all of it
hostile. It’s hardly been a good learning environment.
Over  the  recent  years,  the  Kindred  and  Kuei-jin
have discovered more about each other, but they each
possess complex cultures, histories and mystical natures
completely  alien  to  their  counterparts.  Add  to  the
equation  that vampires are often blinded by their own
arrogance and selfishness, and one can see why useful
factual information is slow in coming. Still, scholars
and  researchers  on  either  side  made  progress  in
understanding the opposition, usually by torturing and
vivisecting captured vampires and even squeezing their
captured souls for information. Not all of this data is
reliable, but it gives vampires a more complete picture
of their rivals.

Unlike the players, however, vampires don’t have
access to books where everything about their kind is
neatly and succinctly arranged. Even within their own
culture, vampires still don’t know about many matters
(many  Kindred    know  little  about  the  culture  and
Disciplines of some clans, for example). This is doubly
true where a completely foreign culture is concerned.
Storytellers  should  remind  players  not  to  mix  their
“book  knowledge”  and  “  character  knowledge”  too

122

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

greatly. It detracts from an environment of exploration
and demystifies the fear factor.
WHAT THE KUEI-JIN KNOW

Between the need to understand more about the foreign
barbarians invading the Middle Kingdom and many Kuei-
jin given to scholarly pursuits, like the Bone Flowers, the
Kuei-jin are gathering  a respectable body of knowledge
about Western vampires. They also learned more recently,
thanks to Kin-jin defector Oliver Thrace and from other
Kindred  expatriates  like  Wan  Zhu  (p.  88).  Of  course,
Thrace knows his knowledge makes him an asset to his
Cathayan  “hosts,”  so  he  hasn’t  told  them  everything,
ensuring that he remains valuable for the time being.

Most  Kuei-jin  knowledge  of  the  Kindred  comes
from second-hand information, direct observation  and
occasionally the interrogation of Kin-jin prisoners or
“guests” of the August Courts. Information obtained
under duress or second-hand isn’t always reliable, but
the Wan Kuei have  still created what they believe a
fairly accurate picture of their enemy.

The Curse: The most important  fact the Kuei-jin
know about the Kin-jin is that their condition is a curse
of some kind. They have no ties to the glory of the Ten
Thousand  Immortals  or  the  time  before  the  Age  of
Beautiful  Sadness.  The  Kin-jin  do  not  come  into
existence as a result of karma or the needs of a particular
soul; they are more akin to a disease that strikes randomly.
This strengthens the Kuei-jin view of Kindred as corrupt
and  diseased  beings.  Some  believe  they  can  still  turn
Kin-jin toward useful ends (indeed, the New Promise
Mandarinate attempts to do so) but few believe the Kin-
jin possess any potential for enlightenment, even if they
understood the wisdom of Xue.

The Power of Blood: Kin-jin blood carries power
within it, but it is toxic Chi, polluted by the corruption
in their bodies. Observation and experimentation show
that Kin-jin blood possesses several properties. Most
importantly,  it  can  pass  corrupt  Chi  on  to  others.
Mortals who drink Kin-jin blood gain strength from it,
but they also become addicted. Mortals drained of their
Chi  and  fed  corrupt  Kin-jin  blood  become  Kin-jin
themselves.  This  is  perhaps  the  most  terrifying  fact
about  the  Kin-jin:  Kin-jin  can  inflict  their  curse  on
others  in  defiance  of  karma’  s  natural  cycles.  It  also
means that Kin-jin can spread like a plague if the Kuei-
jin don’t contain them.

Given the corrupt nature of Kin-jin Chi and the
properties  of  their  blood,  Kuei-jin  are  extremely
reluctant to feed on them. The Eastern vampires do not
believe drinking Kin-jin blood will transform one of
them  into  Kin-jin,  but  they  suspect  (correctly)  that
Kin-jin blood could have the same “addictive” effects
on  them  that  it  has  on  mortals.  Masters  of  Blood
Shintai study Kin-jin blood closely , hoping to find a
means  of  protecting  their  kind  against  its  effects,  as
well as perhaps a weakness they can exploit.

CHAPTER SIX: STORYTELLING SAN FRANCISCO

Disciplines: The Kuei-jin know the Kin-jin have
various supernatural powers at their command, some of
them similar to the Arts of Bone and Flesh Shintai as
well as Kuei-jin Soul Arts. Overall, Kindred Disciplines
appear crude by Kuei-jin standards, focusing primarily
on strengthening or altering the corpse, or influencing
the minds of others. They have seen no evidence the
Kin-jin possess or understand the more advanced Soul
Arts, Chi Arts, or the like. Kin-jin Disciplines create
disturbances in an area’s chi, powered as they are by the
corrupt energy flowing through their blood. Kuei-jin
sensitive to the Chi flow can sense the use of Kin-jin
Disciplines in their presence if they actively try. This is
only  available  to  Kuei-jin  versed  in  the  Chi  Arts  or
Chi’ iu Muh who possess three or more dots in any one
of  these  five  Disciplines.  By  spending  a  Willpower
point, the Kuei-jin may roll Perception + Meditation
(difficulty  8)  to  detect  the  recent  use  of  Disciplines
(within the last two hours) in the immediate area (like
within a house or room).

  Generally  speaking,  the  Kuei-jin  know  about  the
major and more common Kindred Disciplines like Celerity,
Fortitude and Potence. They are aware of abilities like
Auspex,  Dominate,  Presence  and  Protean,  but  know
fairly  little  about  more  esoteric  (and  mainly  Sabbat)
Disciplines like Obtenebration, Serpentis, or Vicissitude.
Rites:    That  the  Kin-jin  have  sorcerers  among
them is clear to the Wan Kuei. They don’t know these
foreign  warlocks’  and  magicians’    exact  abilities,
however.  Thanks  to  Tremere  turncoats  like  Oliver
Thrace, the Kuei-jin know that the power of Kindred
Thaumaturgy roughly equals their own rituals, though
it  apparently  draws  upon  the  corrupt  power  in  their
blood  rather  than  the  flow  of  Chi  throughout  the
world. The body of Western occult lore is so vast that
Kuei-jin only now understand the surface of its ocean
(enough  to  consider  it  as  corrupt  and  misguided  as
everything else about the Kin-jin). They know their
rituals can affect those of the Western Demons’ and
vice versa, but it is considerably more difficult dealing
with foreign magic and its alien precepts.

The  Clans:  Having  studied  them,  the  Kuei-jin
know the Kin-jin organize themselves into “bloodlines”
that  trace  their  lineage  back  to  a  mythical  ancestor.
Unfortunately,  misinformation  and  even  varied
philosophies among the Kin-jin clouds the origins of
Western  Vampires.  Lilith,  Caine,  Osiris,  Set,  Vlad
Tepes, Alkavian-May and a score of other names appear
throughout Kuei-jin research and interrogation sessions.
Rather than confuse the matter further, the Kuei-jin
currently  theorize  that  the  bloodlines  organize
themselves into clans that hearken back to a particular
“ancestor”  after  whom  the  clan  is  named.  They  also
know  that  the  Western  vampires  generally  owe
allegiance to either the Camarilla or Sabbat, and that
the latter is all but impossible to negotiate with (all
Kuei-jin  contact  with  the  Sabbat  ends  in  violence).

123

There is clearly considerable struggle, not  only between
the  Camarilla  and  Sabbat,  but  between  the  various
clans  as  well.  Since  most  of  the  Kuei-jin’s  Kindred
allies  thus  far  have  been  anarchs  and  caitiffs,  their
knowledge of the clans is limited . The New Promise
Mandarinate  hopes  to  learn  more  and  use  their
knowledge to drive wedges between the Kin-jin, and
perhaps recruit more as supporters.

Weaknesses:  The  Kuei-jin  learned  much  about
destroying Kin-jin over the past few years and carefully
seek out any weakness they can use against the foreign
barbarians. They know the Kin-jin are vulnerable to
fire, making Yang Ghost-Flame Shintai a useful weapon
against them. They also quickly grasped that, as Yin-
aligned  creatures,  Kin-jin  are  vulnerable  to  wood.
Staking  Kin-jin  then    burning  the  body  is  a  fairly
standard means of destruction for the Kuei-jin. They
also know that Kin-jin burn when exposed to the sun,
and have arranged for many to face the Eye of Heaven.
WHAT THE KINDRED KNOW

Kindred  knowledge  of  the  Cathayans  lags  behind
because of a particular conceit. Western vampires long
assumed  that  Cathayans  were  simply  a  “lost”    or
undiscovered  bloodline  descended  from  Caine;  they
believed  Asian  vampires  were  essentially  the  same  as
them.  This  proved  to  be  a  serious  mistake.  Although
scholars rectified this assumption, most still commit the
fundamental error of assuming the Cathayans are similar
to  the  Kindred  unless  proven  otherwise,  whereas  the
xenophobic  Kuei-jin  began  with  the  assumption  that
the Kin-jin could not be similar to them. This allowed
the Quincunx to discern the differences between them
much more quickly than the Camarilla has done.

Most of what the Kin-jin (mainly the Camarilla) has
discovered about the Cathayans is what they are not. They
only now touch upon the truth of their opponents’  natures,
and it’s something that sends a small chill through their
cold flesh. The Las Vegas Tremere perform most of the
research into the Cathayans these days (see the description
of Luna Demain on p. 110 for more information).

Spirits  from  Hell:  A  recent  and  very  important
discovery about the Cathayans is they apparently are
not  Embraced  and    do  not  create  other  Cathayans
through the Embrace, at least as far as the Kindred can
tell. Unfortunately, they haven’t yet figured out how
Cathayans come into existence. All they managed to
extract from Kuei-jin prisoners talk about dying and
going  to  Hell.  This  raises  questions  about  the  Asian
vampires  being  ghosts  or  demons  of  some  sort,  but
doesn’t  clearly  explain  where  they  originate  from  or
(more  importantly)  how  quickly  they  can  replenish
their losses.

  Thus  far,  it  seems  reasonably  safe  to  feed  on
Cathayans, and Kindred who do so report that Cathayan
vitae is potent, though it doesn’t appear to carry the
kind  of  power  one  obtains  through  diablerie.  The

124

Kindred  are  also  uncertain  if  Cathayan  blood  can
create a blood bond, so they are careful not to feed on
a  particular  Cathayan  more  than  once.  Apparently,
Cathayan blood does not make mortals into ghouls or
maintain existing ghouls.

Mysterious  Powers:  Among  the  great  mysteries
concerning Cathayans is the extent of their powers. It’s
clear they possess formidable Disciplines at least equal
to  those  wielded  by  Kindred,  perhaps  even  more  so.
Kindred report having seen Cathayans transform their
bodies into hideous forms,  burst into flames, vanish
into  thin  air,  cloak  themselves  in  darkness,  create
weapons and even creatures from their own blood and
numerous  other  feats.  There  are  so  many  that  it  is
difficult to tell what is true and what is terror-induced
exaggeration.  The  simple  truth  is  the  full  extent  of
Cathayan  powers  remains  unknown.  The  Kindred
assume  they  have  abilities  similar  to  their  own,  plus
their own esoteric arts.

The Tremere are particularly interested in learning
more  about  Cathayan  Thaumaturgy.  It’s  clear    the
Asian vampires practice their own brand of magic, but
it otherwise remains a mystery. Some Kindred observers
speculate that a few Cathayan powers may stem from
rituals, but there is currently no way to be sure.

Diverse Ways: The existence and purpose of the
Dharmas  is  largely  unknown  to  Western  vampires.
They are aware of numerous divisions within Cathayan
society,  but  not  clear  on  the  distinctions  between
Dharma,  direction,  Court,  wu  ,  rank  and  the  many
other definitions the Kuei-jin use for themselves.

 Kindred think of the Courts as similar to clans or
factions  like  the  Camarilla  and  Sabbat.  Indeed,  the
Camarilla hopes this is true, since it might mean the other
Courts that they know exist outside the Quincunx might
be rivals of the August Courts and therefore willing to
consider  alliances  with  the  Camarilla.  Unfortunately,
efforts to establish any kind of contact with Japan’s or
Korea’s vampires, much less Indonesia, meet with failure
(and usually the Final Death of their envoys).

Weaknesses: A priority for Kindred is discovering as
much as possible about the Cathayans’ weaknesses. All
evidence thus far is confusing and inconclusive at best.
Experimentation shows that Asian vampires are almost as
vulnerable to the sun as their Western counterparts. They
rot away to dust rather than burning, and can withstand
sunlight for longer than Kindred (a matter of minutes).
Still, there are ghouls who claim to have seen Cathayans
active during the day, suggesting they possess a means of
protecting themselves from sunlight, perhaps a ritual of
some sort.

  Likewise,  some  Cathayans  are  paralyzed  when
staked, while others remain unaffected. Most Cathayans
appear  vulnerable  to  flame,  though  some  are  more
resistant  than  others;  some  even  breathe  flames  or
surround themselves in fire! Fortunately, conventional

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

weapons seem to affect them at least as well as they do
Western  vampires.  For  the  time  being,  the  Kindred
resort to the tried-and-true methods of vampire slaying,
knowing that sometimes they aren’t as effective as they
might expect.

Story Ideas
• The Cloud Mandarins task a wu with uncovering
more  about  the  nature  of  the  Kin-jin  and  their
vulnerabilities.  This  requires  subtlety,  some  careful
research and  possibly finding one or more Kin-jin they
can  abduct  without  raising  suspicions  in  the  city.
Characters  with  disguise  capabilities  may  also  try  to
infiltrate Kin-jin hangouts or havens to learn more.

•The  characters  are  all  of  Asian  descent,  and
Embraced  (and  possibly  blood  bound)  by  Camarilla
vampires to create Kindred capable of infiltrating Kuei-
jin society and learning more about the Cathayans. At
least one character is Tremere (probably with knowledge
of the Contact Kindred Sire ritual). Even skilled actors
aren’t  likely  to  fool  the  Kuei-jin  for  long,  but  the
characters  may  learn  some  useful  information.  They
might also attract the attention of the rogue Tremere
Wan  Zhu  (p.  88)  who  feels  some  sympathy  for  their
plight,  the  akuma  Chan  Te  (p.  98),  or  the  dragon-
wizard Li T’ien (p. 117).
CONFLICTS

There  is  no  lack  of  conflict  brewing  in  San
Francisco. The Storyteller must simply decide which to
focus on in the chronicle. To give the story more depth
and verisimilitude, it’s useful to focus on one conflict as
the center of the chronicle while  leaving other conflicts
in the background, or as the occasional change in the
game’ s pace. A chronicle focusing on the Quincunx/
Camarilla conflict, for example, can still occasionally
feature  political  struggles  within  each  faction,
reminding  players  there  are  other  events  transpiring
around them all the time.
KUEI-JIN VS. KINDRED

The most prominent conflict in San Francisco is
the struggle between the Quincunx’ s Kuei-jin (notably
the  Harmonious  Menders  of  Broken  Fences  faction)
and the city’s Kindred. Both sides want to control the
city  and  few  believe  that  any  kind  of  lasting  peace
between  them  is  possible.  The  New  Promise
Mandarinate’s  success  or  failure  may  change  some
opinions about that, however.

One important fact to understand about the Kuei-
jin/Kindred conflict in San Francisco is that the two
factions are not technically at war with each other. In
fact, the city maintains a fragile peace that both sides
have good reasons to maintain for the time being. The
Kuei-jin stretched themselves thin by taking both San
Francisco and Los Angeles. They  need time to regroup,
reinforce  their  numbers  and  become  more  firmly
entrenched in the cities. The New Promise Mandarinate

CHAPTER SIX: STORYTELLING SAN FRANCISCO

needs  time  to  stabilize  and  create  order  from  the
conflict’s chaos.

The Camarilla needs time to regroup from the defeats
suffered  in  San  Francisco  and  from  their  campaign  to
retake New York City from the Sabbat. They focus more
attention on dealing with the “Cathayan problem,”  but
require  more  information  before  they  can  take  action.
The peace gives them the time they need to study their
new enemy and learn as much as possible (see “Fear and
Ignorance” ) for some details on what the Kindred know
about the Kuei-jin).

For    the  time  being,  peace  exists  between  the
Eastern and Western vampires, at least in theory. San
Francisco is more akin to a Cold War-era city occupied
by two opposing factions rather than a city torn by open
warfare.  The  Kuei-jin  and  Kindred  do  not  routinely
fight in the streets, though isolated skirmishes occur
from time to time as  tempers fray from the constant
stress of existing in “enemy”  territory (for both sides).
Both factions possess good reason to maintain peace
and order, so they frown upon overt conflict. Instead,
agents  of  the  Mandarinate  and  the  Camarilla  sneak,
spy  and gather information, each hoping to be ready
for action before the other.

This means opportunities exist for Kuei-jin and Kin-
jin  to  meet  and  interact  without  matters  coming  to
blows immediately. Of great concern to both sides is that
their  lowermost  ranks,  the  neonates  and  Running
Monkeys, interact on an almost nightly basis. In time,
they may discover they share more in common than they
suspect,  and  sympathy  with  the  enemy  is  something
neither  side  can  afford.  Even  the  New  Promise
Mandarinate, which hopes to incorporate Kin-jin into
its structure, raises concerns among more conservative
Kuei-jin regarding Western “contamination”  of their
culture and traditions. So the two sides carefully dance
around each other, not approaching too closely, but not
letting their guard down either. They simply wait for the
moment when all Hell breaks loose.

Story Ideas
•  An  elder  tells  a  prominent  wu  or  coterie  of
vampires that they must accept an “observer” from the
other  faction  as  a  show  off  “good-faith  and
understanding.”    The  truth  of  the  matter  is  that  the
other  faction  wants  to  monitor  the  activities  of
prominent  vampires  and  gather  information.  The
observer  might  be  guarded  but    sympathetic,  or  may
have plans to deliberately provoke the characters into
a violation of the peace, thus embarrassing their faction.
The observer might even harbor hidden loyalties, either
testing the characters to determine their  allegiances or
working for a third party like the Sabbat, the gaki, or
the Yama Kings.

•Characters    are  asked  or  ordered  to  enter  a
prohibited part of the city to uncover what’s happening
there. They must move carefully, and it’s made clear

125

their  elders  will  disavow  them  if  they’re  caught.  See
Chapter Three for all sorts of places where vampires
from either side can land into trouble. This becomes
more interesting if another faction tries sabotaging the
characters without tipping their own hand too greatly.
KUEI-JIN VS. KUEI-JIN

As much as they struggle to present a unified front
to the barbaric Kin-jin, San Francisco’ s Kuei-jin are far
from unified. Politicking and power struggles threaten
to tear the New Promise Mandarinate apart from within.
The conflict takes place on three levels.

The first is the struggle within the New Promise
Mandarinate  for  control  of  San  Francisco.  Several
mandarins are in contention for the ancestorship , and
each seeks to prove him or herself worthy to the August
Courts  and  the  Ancestor  of  the  Extraordinary
Commission. Each also has a particular agenda for the
city’ s future and the August Courts. Arrayed around
them are various allies, Scarlet Screens, potential rivals
and political enemies. Nearly every local Kuei-jin hopes
to back a winner and come out on top when the dust
finally settles and an ancestor assumes control. Even
then,  the  new  ancestor  will  need  capable  and
experienced mandarins to help run the city, so no one
can afford to completely alienate a possible future ally.
The  second  is  the  struggle  within  the  Quincunx
between the Foreigner-Vanquishing Crusaders and the
Harmonious  Menders  of  Broken  Fences.  The  Fence
Menders are currently in favor with the August Courts
for their successes, while the Crusaders  have suffered
some setbacks. Still, they dedicate themselves to their
ideal of carrying the battle to the unrighteous, agitating
nightly to press their advantage in San Francisco and
sweep away the corrupt and barbaric Kin-jin.

The other conflicts are between the Kuei-jin of the
Quincunx’  s  August  Courts  (who  control  the  New
Promise Mandarinate) and Kuei-jin from outside the
August  Courts.  They  maintain  their  own  agendas,
which are not always in agreement with the Great Leap
Outward  and  the  Two-Fang  Serpent  Plan.  This  also
includes the kànbujiàn, Kuei-jin who took the Second
Breath  outside  the  Middle  Kingdom  and  whom  the
Quincunx considers nearly as barbaric as the Kin-jin.
The Gaki: San Francisco’s Japanese Kuei-jin suffered
at the hands of their Chinese brethren, who treated them
as  second-class  citizens  for  some  time.  Now  the  New
Promise Mandarinate finds itself in desperate need of allies
and the gaki find themselves bargaining from a position of
strength.  They  can  also  make  things  difficult  for  the
Quincunx and the occupying Kuei-jin, if they wish.

For the time being, the gaki deliberately remain on
the Quincunx’s good side in hopes of finding a place for
themselves within the New Promise Mandarinate. Still,
they  haven’  t  forgotten  the  past  offenses  committed
against them. The gaki could just as easily turn against
their allies, if offered a better opportunity.

126

The Green Courts: The Kuei-jin of Korea’ s Green
Courts worry about the effects of the Great Leap Outward
on their own position in the Middle Kingdom. For a long
time, the Parallel Path through the Korean peninsula was
the final refuge of Kuei-jin, who  brought much jade into
the Green Courts. Now Los Angeles and San Francisco
are  popular  destinations  for  Kuei-jin  exiled  from  the
August Courts or seeking shelter from their enemies. If
the occupation of those cities is successful, then the flow
of jade into the Green Courts may dry up entirely. This is
not acceptable.

The Green Courts therefore  dispatched agents to
North  America  to  ensure  the  conflict  between  the
Quincunx  and  the  Kin-jin  remains  fierce  enough  to
dissuade Kuei-jin from traveling there.  They also hope
to keep the August Courts embroiled in foreign conflicts
and  away  from  exerting  their  influence  over  places
closer to home (like Korea). Finally, the Green Courts’
necromancers  seek  support  among  the  scattered  and
demoralized ghosts of the Yin World; they want more
information about the rituals and lore of the Kin-jin,
particularly the Giovanni Clan, though the Tremere are
a close second.

Kànbujiàn:  Kuei-jin who take the Second Breath
outside the Middle Kingdom are rare, while those who
lived their mortal lives in the West are rarer still. More
kànbujiàn exist in San Francisco, however,  than any other
Western city. Long considered a minor problem by the
Middle  Kingdom’s  Courts,  the kànbujiàn  prove  a  more
serious matter for the New Promise Mandarinate. On the
one  hand,  they  are  Kuei-jin,  having  escaped  from  the
Yomi World to reanimated their corpse. On the other
hand, they are uneducated, undisciplined and little more
than barbarians. The very fact that kànbujiàn  don’t follow
a  recognized  Dharma  is  enough  to  rally  most  Kuei-jin
against them. Add the fact that kànbujiàn often turn to the
Yama  Kings  and  become  akuma    is  reason  enough  to
simply  wipe  them  out  according  to  conservative  Wan
Kuei.  Although  there  is  no  place  for  them  in  Kuei-jin
society,  the  Mandarinate  may  have  no  choice  but  to
welcome them lest they risk losing these wayward vampires
to the Kin-jin.

Since the arrival of the New Promise Mandarinate,
the number of kànbujiàn taking the Second Breath in
San Francisco is rising. The mandarins must deal with
these new chih-mei , pacifying them and teaching them
properly as well as protecting them from predators like
the Kin-jin and akuma. Since the Mandarinate needs
steady reinforcements, the mandarins willingly cut some
corners when educating these  kànbujiàn, offering them
a place in the hierarchy as soon as possible. Critics say
that  entrusting  anything  to  poorly  educated  Running
Monkeys  is  an  invitation  for  disaster.  The  Bamboo
Princes, however, are interested in these new  hin familiar
with the Western world and not yet “corrupted” by years
of indoctrination into the August Courts.

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

For  their  part,  the  kànbujiàn  face  the  unending
struggles of their unlives, torn between their heritage
and  the  realities  of  their  existence.  They  feel  little
loyalty to the foreign Courts who brand them barbarians,
and  in  many  ways  have  more  in  common  with  the
Kindred. Some want to learn and become a part of Kuei-
jin society, while others remain fiercely independent.
There are even some who try bridging the gap between
East and West, though there is little hope of doing so as
an outcast of both societies.

Story Ideas
• A mysterious group of Kuei-jin attacked (but did
not destroy) several San Francisco Kindred. Although
the New Promise Mandarinate knows nothing  of these
Wan Kuei, the pressure to deal with the problem is great.
The Kindred are becoming restless with these attacks,
claiming the Cathayans intend to torture and pick them
off  like  animals.  Clearly  these  Kuei-jin  are  outsiders
looking to cause the Mandarinate trouble. They may be
from the Green or Golden Courts, disgruntled gaki, or
members of a rival sect from the August Courts, like the
Foreigner-Vanquishing  Crusaders,  who  would  love  to
ensure the Mandarinate’s failure.

•  The  Mandarinate  dispatches  a  wu  to  gather
information on all kànbujiàn in San Francisco and the
surrounding area. The wu  must recruit as many of these
rouge Kuei-jin as possible while dealing with any who
refuse the Cloud Mandarins’ hospitality. Neutrality is
not an option. The wu  can encounter Billy Wei and his
Heaven Promise Society (p. 97), the mysterious Yulan-
Tao (p. 95) and possibly even touch upon the existence
of the Hollow City wu (p. 98).
KINDRED VS. KINDRED

Although the Kuei-jin threat helps unify the Bay
Area  Camarilla,  other  Kindred  factions  still  pursue
personal goals. Not all vampires in the Camarilla like
Prince Winder and the Inner Circle’s handling of the
Cathayan  situation,  or  even  the  appointment  of  the
city’s new prince.

Former Prince Jochen Van Nuys doesn’t have many
supporters left among San Francisco’s Kindred, but he
has some. He still considers San Francisco “his”  city
and is not about to let some upstart displace him. Van
Nuys  willingly  does  what  is  necessary  to  ensure  he
comes out ahead, including betraying the Camarilla, if
it comes to that. He cannot allow Sara Anne Winder to
oust the New Promise Mandarinate. If anyone must do
it, it has to be him. To that end,  he cooperates with the
Mandarinate and watches for weakness on both sides of
the fence. The first faction that becomes a viable target
gains Jochen Van Nuys for an enemy.

The Tremere:  Clan Tremere has a strong interest in
retaking San Francisco. Although they cooperate with
the Prince for now, the Warlocks haven’t forgotten the
Cathayans’    assassination  of  their  primogen  in  San
Francisco;  they  take  their  frustrations  out  on  any

CHAPTER SIX: STORYTELLING SAN FRANCISCO

127

THE KÀNBUJIÀN CHRONICLE

One  interesting  San  Francisco  chronicle
potential is if players assume the roles of a kànbujiàn
wu,  either  following  Westernized  versions  of  the
existing  Dharmas,  heretical  Dharmas  or    a
combination  of  both.  A  kànbujiàn  chronicle  has
several  advantages,  mainly  as  characters  more
familiar with Western culture (and therefore easier
for Western players to roleplay) and as potential for
a mix of diverse characters. Already outcasts from
Kuei-jin  society,  kànbujiàn  don’  t  generally  care
about social distinctions like Dharma, allowing a
mix  of  heresies  that  the  Middle  Kingdom  courts
would never normally permit.

Of course, a kànbujiàn wu must deal with a lack
of support, the scorn (and perhaps open hostility) of
other  Kuei-jin  and  becoming  fair  targets  by
opportunistic Kindred. Without teachers and gurus,
their Dharma advancement is limited at best, and
they can’t learn the many Disciplines available to
Kuei-jin. On the other hand, they are a unique “wild
card”  in  San  Francisco’  s  power  structure;  nearly
every faction will likely court them for their support.
It requires a complex juggling act to play their would-
be “allies” against each other, and too many refusals
may earn the wu  several powerful enemies.

unfortunate Wan Kuei captured by the Camarilla. They
learn much about the Kuei-jin in the process (see “What
the  Kindred  Know”  )  and  they  hunger  for  more.  The
combined goads of curiosity and vengeance may drive the
Tremere to initiate their own measures in San Francisco,
without Prince Winder’s permission or knowledge.

The Western Princes: The princes of Western North
America, excluding newly-appointed Sara Anne Winder,
are  less  than  pleased  with  the  current  situation.  They
engineered the events leading to the Kuei-jin invasion of
San Francisco by sabotaging peace negotiations, thus trying
to force the Camarilla into a confrontation. Now they must
deal  with  the  aftermath  of  what  they  wrought.  The
confrontation never materialized the way they wanted it,
though it may given time.

Meanwhile,  the  princes  take  steps  to  ensure  the
Camarilla doesn’t sue for peace again and leave them at
the Cathayans’ mercy.  Nearly every other Camarilla-
controlled  city  along  the  Pacific  Coast  is  an  armed
camp, waiting for the first signs of a Cathayan invasion.
Kindred  have  mistaken  more  than  a  few  Asian  sect
members for Kuei-jin and destroyed them, which makes
the  Camarilla’s  job  of  recruiting  experienced  Asian
agents difficult. Everyone is on edge and it wouldn’t
take much for another prince to slip up, a fact not lost
on  political  rivals  looking  to  scale  the  Camarilla’s
hierarchical ladder.

The  Sabbat:  The  Sword  of  Caine  suffered  some
setbacks recently,  but the bishops believe they are nothing
insurmountable. In fact, the presence of the Cathayans in
California presents the Sabbat with an opportunity. The
Camarilla shifted its focus to the New Promise Mandarinate
while the Kuei-jin generally lump the Sabbat in with the
Camarilla  and  all  the  other  Western  vampires  (one
barbarian is the same as any other). The Sabbat wants to
ensure there is no peace between the Camarilla and the
Quincunx. Their agents stir up trouble in Los Angeles and
San Francisco, hoping to spark a conflict that finishes off
one side and leaves the other crippled and exhausted for
Sabbat hunting packs.

Anarchs:  The  anarchs  suffered  one  terrible  blow
when Los Angeles fell to the Kuei-jin and another when
their  last-ditch effort to disrupt the Camarilla-Quincunx
peace talks backfired. The local anarch movement is a
mere shadow of its former self, with most anarchs in the
city on their way somewhere else (when they can arrange
to reach elsewhere in reasonable safety). The rest are
disillusioned  and  disheartened,  unable  to  organize  an
opposition to the New Promise Mandarinate or willingly
joining  it  rather  than  be  left  to  the  Camarilla’s  or
Sabbat’s mercy.
Story Ideas
• An anarch who survived the fiasco on Telegraph
Hill (described in “Walking After Midnight” in Nights
of Prophecy ) possesses documents proving the Western
princes  backed  the  anarchs  and  devised  the  plan  to
disrupt the peace talks. Needless to say, such information
is “embarrassing,” so the princes arrange to destroy the
evidence  and  the  anarch  along  with  it.  The  hunted
vampire might seek out the characters as allies or offer
to sell them what he knows in exchange for safety. The
characters might also come upon him dying and learn
where he’s hidden the documents. Whatever faction
the characters belong to, the evidence is a useful tool
and the other side will surely be interested in it, if they
find out. Camarilla characters must also contend with
the dilemma: do they risk splitting the Camarilla and
pitting the princes against each other at this critical
time,  or  hide  what  they  know  and  perhaps  try
blackmailing the princes?

•While Oliver Thrace unraveled the Tremere-placed
wards blocking San Francisco’s tunnels and bridges, the
Cloud  Mandarins  want  the  Camarilla  believing  they
haven’ t solved that problem yet. Jiejie Li charges the
characters with obtaining the Tremere ritual that created
the ward, using the characters as red herrings. They can
try outright thievery, though it’ll be difficult reaching
the Tremere chantry in Las Vegas, much less penetrating
its  defenses  —  both  mystical  and  mundane  —  and
escaping in once piece.

This offers a great opportunity for a “road trip” to
Vegas  since  the  Mandarinate  wants  to  avoid
antagonizing San Francisco Kindred by attacking their
own there. The wu  might also try luring the Tremere

128

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

out,  perhaps  baiting  the  trap  with  valuable  Kuei-jin
occult lore or even valuable Kuei-jin prisoners. That
said, the characters aren’t supposed to succeed, at least
according  to  the    Mandarinate.  If  they  do,  Jiejie  Li
either forces the characters to return the information
before the Tremere notice it is missing or sends assassins
after the characters, hoping to fool the Tremere into
believing  Lupines destroyed the thieves before they
shared their stolen knowledge.
HUNTERS VS. VAMPIRES

The sudden increase in San Francisco’s bloodsucking
population  has  not  gone  unnoticed  by  the  city’s  other
denizens. Certainly the demon-hunter Xiu Ping (p. 116) is
aware  of  the  situation.    Although  both  sides  carefully
conceal their activities, some slip-ups are inevitable. Scarlet
screens and mortal pawns help cover them up, but a few
mortals in the know have  picked up on events in the City
by the Bay.

The Storyteller can make hunters and shih  anything
from a background element and minor inconvenience to a
serious  threat  that  may  catch  both  vampire  groups  off
guard. A hunter offensive might even force a temporary
alliance between the Camarilla and Quincunx to deal with
the problem.

Story Ideas
• The Mandarinate asks the characters to “dissuade”
students from attending Madame Xiu Ping’s martial arts
school and deny the shih  any more potential disciples.
They’re not to act openly against the demon-hunter or
her apprentice, however, because Madame Xiu Ping draws
the attention and quiet approval of Father Li T’ ien. They
can  do  everything  else  within  their  power  to  ruin  the
school and encourage Madame Xiu to stay out of Kuei-jin
affairs. On the other hand, Prince Winder may ask Kindred
characters to discretely approach the demon-hunter and
offer support against the Kuei-jin in exchange for some
concessions (namely leaving the Kindred alone). They’re
not  likely  to  succeed,  but  the  Camarilla  needs  allies
wherever it can find them.
AKUMA AND THE YAMA KINGS

Although ostensibly the New Promise Mandarinate
helps prepare the Middle Kingdom for the Sixth Age,
the  truth  is  that  neither  the  Foreigner-Vanquishing
Crusaders  nor  the  Harmonious  Menders  of  Broken
Fences  encounter  many  akuma    in  the  Great  Leap
Outward,  which  is  just  as  the  servants  of  the  Yama
Kings  want.  Although  their  brethren  fall  in  large
numbers  in  Shanghai  and  elsewhere,  the  North
American  akuma    are  a  different  breed  who  play  by
different  rules.  They  work  subtly  behind  the  scenes,
waiting for a ripe moment when they may act.

Chan Te and his Hollow City wu (p. 98) are the
Yama Kings’ (and specifically Yama King Mikaboshi’s)
primary  agents  in  San  Francisco.  The  Storyteller  can
introduce others, perhaps even among the ranks of the

CHAPTER SIX: STORYTELLING SAN FRANCISCO

CROSSOVERS

Although  it’s  easy  to  focus  on  Kuei-jin  and
Kindred activities, leaving the rest as rumor and the
occasional encounter, San Francisco is also ripe for
a  chronicle  that  draws  together  the  World  of
Darkness’  various  supernatural  elements.  Some
supporting characters in Chapter Five provide hints
about  what  other  supernatural  factions  think  of
vampires and recent events in San Francisco.

Previous  books  for  Mage  and  Changeling
(notably  Loom  of  Fate    and  the  Immortal  Eyes
series, respectively) presented San Francisco as a
setting for those games. Of course, since then the
Traditions have  suffered serious setbacks and the
Fae are at war. This fits in with the strengthening of
San Francisco’s Wall, increasingly severing it from
the spirit worlds. The city is likely to be bleaker and
more isolated  than before, and other supernaturals
must be careful to avoid becoming embroiled in the
conflict between the Kuei-jin and the Kindred.

New Promise  Mandarinate. Could one Cloud Mandarin
even be a secret disciple of the Yama Kings, waiting to
drag the whole Mandarinate down into the mouth of
Hell? (Consult The Thousand Hells for more on akuma
and the Yama Kings.)
Story Ideas
• Parts of the Wicked City touch upon the malignant
and  more  twisted  portions  of  San  Francisco  (like  the
Tenderloin district or Bayview; see Chapter Three for
more information). Characters may hear rumors about
vampires  discovering  strange  streets  and  alleys  where
none  should  exist,  or  they  might  themselves  stumble
down  an  entrance  into  the  Wicked  City  through  the
vanishing building. The incursion of Mikaboshi’s Hell is
proof  there  are  akuma    in  San  Francisco,  and  the
knowledge  will  likely  spark  an  investigation,  if  not
inquisition,  among the Kuei-jin. Meanwhile the Kin-
jin,  especially  the  Sabbat  who  deal  with  Infernalism,
become concerned. Is this a new Kuei-jin trick or endemic
of a heresy extant among the Wan Kuei? Why are the
Cathayans so close-mouthed about it?
PLAYING THE POLITICAL GAME

Groups looking for a chronicle involving elders and
more experienced characters can play out the political
struggles  between  San  Francisco’  s  New  Promise
Mandarinate and the Camarilla. The players can assume
the roles of prominent supporting characters from  this
book (like the Cloud Mandarins and Prince Sara Anne
Winder)  or  create  their  own  mandarins,  princes  and
primogen members. For a real challenge, players can take
roles on opposite sides of the conflict and play against
each other. The caveat with this  technique, however, is
that it might foster a sense of destructive competitiveness

129

that could unravel the chronicle and engender animosity
within the group. Storytellers should consider this option
very carefully.

A political game is far likelier to focus on roleplaying
and interaction with the setting’ s major persona, though
there is still room for action given the factions trying to
spark  the  powder  keg  that  is  San  Francisco.  The
Storyteller should emphasize the complexity of the local
situation for both sides and the difficulties in maintaining
peace  while  arming  for  war.  Characters  can  meet  in
negotiations  with  their  opposite  numbers,  face
assassination attempts and rebellion from within their
ranks,  deal  with  political  pressure  coming  from  their
superiors  and  contend  with  the  nightly  demands  of
maintaining order in a city at siege.

A high-level political game is also ideally suited for
Live Action Mind’s Eye Theatre using the  Laws of
the East supplement for Kuei-jin characters.

SYSTEMS

This  section  provides  systems  for  specific  issues
characters may encounter in and around San Francisco.
Included  here  is  more  information  on  Kuei-jin  who
take the Second Breath outside the Middle Kingdom.
CULTIVATING CHI

San  Francisco  has  several  districts  where  there’  s
been  mention  of  inauspicious  Chi  and  its  deleterious
effects  on  Kuei-jin  and  Kin-jin.  In  game  terms,  this
means the Storyteller has several avenues available to
her on how she might represent the effects of bad feng
shui  on vampires of both hemispheres. As a simple rule
of thumb, the Tenderloin, Bayview and Financial District
(particularly around the Trans-America Building) are
the most affected, though the Sunset M-T Sector may
follow them soon.
THE KUEI-JIN AND CHI

The  Kuei-jin  both  benefit  and  suffer  for  their
attunement to Chi. While they possess the Disciplines
to purify and balance the Chi within themselves, they
are also more susceptible to its negative effects. This is
especially true in places like the Trans-America Building
or Bayview, where Yin Chi prevails and Demon Chi
becomes  more  prevalent.  Mortals  carry  around  this
burden  in  their  system  as  well,  becoming  more
susceptible  to  illness  and  depression  because  of  the
negative Chi reservoirs in their flesh, blood and breath.
Tenderloin and Bayview possess a higher quantity of
Yin Chi and faint traces of Demon Chi (in select locations;
Storyteller’s prerogative). When a Kuei-jin rolls to obtain
Chi through Blood, Breath or Osmosis, each roll of “ 1”
indicates the vampire absorbed an extra Yin Chi point
instead of Yang. If the vampire’ s intent is only to absorb
Yin Chi or she botches the roll, the Kuei-jin absorbs a
point of Demon Chi and must make a shadow nature roll.

130

If  the  Kuei-jin  is  a  flesh  eater,  the  Storyteller  should
consider all victims “a cold corpse”  (see Kindred of the
East, p.137) regardless how fresh the kill, and only yield
8 Yin and 2 Yang.

For  the  area  surrounding  the  Financial  District’s
Trans-America Building, all Chi Art or Soul Discipline
rolls  automatically  incur  a  penalty  of  one  to  their
difficulty. Within the Trans-America Building, all rolls
concerning  the  above-mention  Disciplines  receive  a
penalty of two.
THE KIN-JIN AND CHI

Ignorance  has  its  advantages.  While  Kindred  and
Cainites  can  do  little  about  the  negative  Chi  around
them,  if  they  even  believe  in  it,  neither  are  they  as
affected  by  it  as  the  Kuei-jin.  The  reason  is  mostly
because the physiology of Western vampires isn’t attuned
to Chi, despite their need for blood. In fact, because they
don’t  ingest  breath  or  Chi,  Kindred  possess  spiritual
calluses that inure them to its poisonous effects. Still,
that doesn’t mean they’ re completely immune either.
They still rely on blood to exist, and that means they are
sometimes susceptible to their prey’s health.

Hunting in Bayview or the Tenderloin carries some
disadvantages, primary of which are victims suffused with
a surfeit of tainted Chi. Whenever the vampire rolls to feed
from a local mortal (using Strength to pin the victim down
or  a Discipline to cow them, etc.) any “1s” translate as a
potential Blood Point lost during the feeding because the
victim’ s vitae somehow tasted old and stale. The vampire
must spit it out, disrupting the feeding. If the Kindred hunts
animals in Bayview or the Tenderloin for blood (like rats
and pigeons), however, any rolled “1” means all the creature’s
blood is tainted and unfit for consumption.

Another  effect  endemic  to  the  area  surrounding
the Financial District’s Trans-America Building (not
to mention some areas in Bayview and the Tenderloin;
Storyteller’s  discretion)  is  one  of  “luck.”  Frenzy  and
Rötschreck are both more difficult by a penalty of one
towards difficulty, or even two, in these areas because
the Yin Chi and Yomi World call out to the Beast in
local  vampires,  stirring  and  agitating  them.
Additionally,  a  cloying  malaise  affects  the  mortal
population of Bayview and the Tenderloin, meaning
that all Social rolls may suffer a penalty of one to their
difficulties as well.
RITES AND RITUALS

Rituals are powerful tools for both Kuei-jin Sorcerers
and Kindred Thaumaturgists. The Tremere used their
magic to good effect in penning in the Kuei-jin, but the
Cathayans  have 
  already  developed  secret
countermeasures.  As  the  stalemate  between  them
stretches on, it’s almost certain both sides will develop
new mystic weapons for their arsenals that eventually
change the way  vampires win cities in the future.

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

WARD VERSUS CATHAYANS (LEVEL
THREE RITUAL)

This  ritual  is  similar  to  Ward  Versus  Ghouls
(Vampire: The Masquerade, p. 184), and provides the
Kindred with some protection against their rivals. Like
the ritual upon which it is based, the ward causes great
pain and injury to any Kuei-jin who comes into contact
with the warded object or area. Since it requires a half-
pint  of  Kuei-jin  blood,  the  ritual  is  costly  and  not
performed  casually.  The  caster  mixes  the  Cathayan
blood with a small measure (one blood point) of his
own before pouring it over the object in question or
marking the borders of the affected area while reciting
the  appropriate  incantation.  The  entire  ritual  takes
about 15 minutes (assuming the caster already prepared
the blood).

  On  a  final  note,  the  ward  and  almost  all  Tremere
familiar with it are in the Las Vegas Chantry. Only Luna
Demain and her assistant Martin Franckel know the ritual
and still dwell in San Francisco. The Tremere try limiting
the Cathayans’  potential exposure to anyone familiar with
the ward.

System:  Kuei-jin who pass through or touch upon
a warded area suffer three dice of lethal damage every
turn. The Kuei-jin must spend a Willpower point to
continue  touching  the  object  or  remain  in  the  area.
They    must  also  check  for  wave  soul  each  turn  they
continue to do so. If they enter wave soul, they must
flee from the warded object or area as quickly as possible.
WRIT OF PROTECTED PASSAGE (LEVEL
TWO RITUAL)

Tremere  expatriate  Wan  Zhu  (p.  88)  developed
one countermeasure to the Tremere’s ward. This ritual
requires  a  small  amount  of  blood  from  the  subject,
which the caster (a Tremere) uses to draw protective
sigils and diagrams on a piece of paper, creating a charm
that shields the subject from the effects of the Ward
Versus Cathayans. The charm’ s creation requires about
10  minutes,  and  it  works  only  for  the  vampire  who
provides the blood used to make it. A Writ of Protected
Passage  lasts  for  24  hours  and  instantly  loses  its
effectiveness if exposed to sunlight.

System:  A Kuei-jin carrying a Writ of Protected
Passage  is  automatically  immune  to  the  effects  of  a
Ward Versus Cathayans ritual so long as she carries the
writ. If the carrier loses, destroys or  exposes the charm
to sunlight, it no longer offers protection. An individual
can  only  carry  one  writ  bearing  his  blood  at  a  time;
others created while the first exists have no power.
OBLITERATE THE BATTLEMENTS (LEVEL
FIVE RITUAL)

This ritual is a deus ex machina, a Storyteller plot
device and bit of magic known only to Oliver Thrace
that can disrupt the wards strangling San Francisco’ s

CHAPTER SIX: STORYTELLING SAN FRANCISCO

Cathayans. The spell is deliberately complex thanks to
Thrace’s understanding of Thaumaturgy and his almost
preternatural  acumen  with  languages.  Translating  it
requires a minimum of Linguistics 4 and a Linguistics +
Intelligence  roll  (difficulty  9),  if  anyone  can  steal  it
from him in the first place.

This ritual should only appear as the culmination
of a major story arc, and one that alters San Francisco
for the foreseeable nights. If the Cathayans bring Thrace
to San Francisco to activate the spell, the  Kuei-jin are
ready to invade another city and the their supply lines
to the Middle Kingdom are now secure. Otherwise, it
could mean the Camarilla is on the verge of retaking
the city, and the Kuei-jin are trying to escape en  masse.
A third option is that the Sabbat discovered both the
ritual and Thrace’s betrayal in Hong Kong. If that’s the
case,  they  send  a  pack  into  Hong  Kong  to  “rescue”
Thrace  and  bring  him  to  their  side  given  the
disappearance of all the Tremere antitribu (or wait for
him to come to San Francisco and kidnap him then).
KÀNBUJIÀN

Players in a San Francisco chronicle may want to
run  kànbujiàn    characters,  in  which  case  Storytellers
can use this information in conjunction with some of
the  characters  described  in  Chapter  Five.  Kànbujiàn
lack the training given to hin and therefore have no
place in Kuei-jin society. More importantly, kànbujiàn
know nothing of the Dharmas, and therefore must seek
enlightenment  on  their  own;  it  is  a  difficult  and
dangerous path.
KÀNBUJIÀN (4 PT. FLAW)

You are kànbujiàn — “unable to see” —  a Kuei-jin
who  took  the  Second  Breath  outside  the  Middle
Kingdom.  You  survived  your  time  as  a chih-mei    and
overcame the Demon on your own. Other Kuei-jin did
not find you and see to your education, either because
you were too isolated or because you hid from them too
well. Consequently, you know little or nothing about
Kuei-jin society, history, philosophy, etc. All that you
know about your existence is what you learn from hard
experience and instinct.

Your Traits and Abilities are exactly like those of

other Kuei-jin, with the following exceptions:

•Dharma:    You  cannot  follow  an  established
Dharma (either the five Dharmas from Kindred of the
East  or  the  heretical  Dharmas  from  Kindred  of  the
East  Companion).  You  gain  none  of  the  benefits  of
following  a  Dharma,  except  as  outlined  below  (see
Kànbujiàn Paths for more details).

•Abilities:  Kànbujiàn  cannot  have  dots  in  any
Abilities  requiring  Kuei-jin  knowledge  or  training,
such as Portents or Rituals.

•Backgrounds: You cannot buy Backgrounds associated
with Kuei-jin society or training, including Mentor, Rites
and Status. Kànbujiàn  also do not possess the Horoscope

131

Background  (since  their  Second  Breath  was  clearly
inauspicious). Backgrounds like Jade Talisman, Magic Artifact
and Nushi are exceedingly rare among kànbujiàn.

•Disciplines: You cannot have dots in Chi or Soul
Disciplines, since they require a deep understanding of Chi
(and instruction from a master teacher). Kànbujiàn  can
learn Shintai Disciplines and Demon Arts on their own.
KÀNBUJIÀN PATHS

By definition, kànbujiàn do not follow the Dharmas
set  forth  by  Grand  Arhat  Xue  or  even  the  heresies
practiced in the Middle Kingdom’ s far-flung domains,
but neither are they as blind as their fellow Kuei-jin
believe. Any kànbujiàn who survives past the chih-mei
stage  must  wrestle  with  and  conquer  the  Demon,
achieving  some  small  measure  of  enlightenment.
Whether or not the vampire can build upon this small
foundation is another matter.

When  they  wrest  control  from  the  claws  of  the
Demon,  all  Kuei-jin  experience  a  moment  of
enlightenment. They have an opportunity to choose a
path leading them away from the flesh-eating demon
and toward a greater understanding of their place in the
Great Cycle. For most Kuei-jin, the teachings of the
Dharma direct this choice. Kànbujiàn do not have such
training, so their choice is instinctual and based entirely
on the knowledge and experiences of their mortal lives.
Each  kànbujiàn  finds  and  clings  to  a  particular
philosophy of existence like a drowning man clutching
a  floating  piece  of  wood.  Unlike  the  Dharmas,  the
kànbujiàn  paths are diverse and individualistic, though
they  often  stress  similar  virtues.  Holding  tightly  to
their beliefs, the blind ones stumble forward on their
path like explorers in a newly discovered land. It may
be that the kànbujiàn paths are similar to the Dharmas
of uncounted centuries ago, when they came into being
in the mind and soul of Xue and the first of the Wan
Kuei (although modern Kuei-jin certainly don’t care
for the comparison).

In game terms, each kànbujiàn chooses a particular
Virtue like Hun (for Way of Hun) or P’o (for Way of
P’o), or Yin, or Yang or Balance as his or her path focuses
. The Kuei-jin accepts and follows tenets supporting that
virtue, deepening their understanding of it and eventually
leading toward greater enlightenment. Essentially, each
kànbujiàn creates his  own Dharma through painstaking
trial-and-error. Some kànbujiàn become victims of their
own blindness. Some find the path too hard and fall to
the temptations of the Yama Kings, becoming akuma . A
few  manage  to  stay  on  the  path  and  struggle  toward
understanding and enlightenment.

A  kànbujiàn  path  functions  like  a  Dharma  in  all

respects except the following:

•The  kànbujiàn  gains  no  benefits  from  having  a
teacher  or  mentor.  The  path  is  extremely  personal.
Therefore, auspicious occasions when enlightenment
might strike are correspondingly rare.

132

•The codes and tenets of the individual path (as
created by the player and approved by the Storyteller)
determine  acts  of  blindness.  Disillusionment  and
becoming lost in mortal concerns are common failings
among the kànbujiàn.

•The Path Level does not grant any sort of Social
Bonus. In fact, other Kuei-jin generally react negatively
toward  known  kànbujiàn,  regardless  of  their  progress
along a path. Kànbujiàn do gain all the other benefits of
a Dharma Level equal to their Path Level (see p. 54 of
Kindred of the East).

•Paths do not have lucky numbers associated with
them,  so  kànbujiàn    gain  only  the  lucky  numbers
associated with their direction. The auspicious omens
and  symbols  affiliated  with  their  path  are  left  up  to
player and Storyteller collaboration.

•The kànbujiàn’s chosen Virtue must remain equal
to  or  greater  than  the  other  three  Virtues.  (If  the
chosen Virtue is Balance, then all four Virtues must
remain within 1 point of each other.) Failure to do this
constitutes an act of blindness for the character’s path.

SAN FRANCISCO BY NIGHT

CHANGING PATHS

A kànbujiàn path is a difficult road to walk, and some
souls lose their way. After trying and failing in a particular
path, a character may choose to follow another. This
works exactly like changing Dharmas (p. 52, Kindred of
the East ): the character drops to Rating 1 in the new
path and must start all over again. Moreover, the character
is  barred  from  returning  to  the  old  path.  A kànbujiàn
who tries and fails at all five Virtues meets Final Death
and is torn from the Great Cycle.

Kànbujiàn properly instructed in a Dharma can take
up that Dharma if they choose, gaining all its normal
benefits. This is the same as changing paths, unless the
Dharma has the same central Virtue as the character’s
path  and  the  Storyteller  feels  the  two’s  tenets  are
reasonably compatible. In this case, kànbujiàn  do not
lose all the insight gained from their path. They begin
the  new  Dharma  with  a  Rating  one  less  than  their
previous Path Rating.

